http://www.your-freedom.net/index.php?id=83 (Fetched on 22.12.2010)

Acceptable Use Policy

By using and/or paying for the Your Freedom service you
accept the following terms and conditions. If you do not agree
with them then don't use the service; once you have started to
use the service we feel no longer obliged to any reimbursement
of payments already made.

We reserve the right to modify or extend these terms and conditions
at any time and without notice other than publication on our web server,
and to disable or void your account if you are in violation of
these terms and conditions. It is your responsibility to verify
from time to time that your actions are not in violation of these
terms and conditions in their latest version.

We will not refund any fees already paid for the use of
our service if your account is voided because you are in
violation of these terms of conditions.

Date of last modification: April 10, 2010.

1. Good conduct
We are very much in favor of free speech and freedom of information,
and one of the driving factors for providing this service was to
enable people to express their opinions freely and access information
that would otherwise be barred from them. However we will not
tolerate:
 -insulting, racist, sexist, or otherwise offending behavior
 -non-consenting indecency (i.e. sexual harassment)
 -indecent approaches towards minors, consenting or not
 -identity theft (i.e. masquerading as someone else)
 -vandalism or break-ins, or any hacking or cracking attempts
 -spreading of worms or viruses
 -mass emailing of any kind, or email forgery (i.e. not using your proper email address as the sender)

This list is by no means complete. Please use your common sense.

2. Email abuse
You are welcome to use this service to send and receive email.
However we impose a very strict, zero tolerance no-spam policy.
If you use this service to send bulk email, solicited or not, and we
receive sufficient proof of such action, your account will be
voided and no questions will be asked or answered. The same is true
if you do not use your proper email address as the sender address.

We reserve the right to technically limit the amount of outbound
mail sent through the service to protect the Internet community
from spam -- and our servers from appearing on blacklists.
Be advised that sending unsolicited bulk email is now a criminal
act in many countries.

3. Privacy
We do our best to protect your privacy by not storing any more
details on our servers than technically or legally required -- and permitted.
In fact, the servers themselves do not keep any logs that could be
of interest to anyone but the developers and operators; all logs
containing user details are instead kept on a server in Germany.
However we will cooperate with legal authorities to the extend
required to protect us from having to take responsibility for your
actions. This means that we may unveil your account and payment
details as well as the source IP address used to connect to our
servers if we are forced to do so.

We do not log what you access on the Internet; German
telecommunications laws do not even permit this. We do log the
fact that you have used our service, from where you have logged
in to our service, the lowest 16 bit of IP addresses you have connected to
(but not the full address!) and statistical data about your usage needed for accounting
and quality assurance. This information is typically held
on file for only a few days and no longer than 4 weeks. We do not use this
information in any other way except for statistical, debugging and
accounting purposes and for combating violations of these terms,
unless required by legal authorities.

Our servers are located in different countries around the world;
the Your Freedom client will tell you on its status panel where
the server you are currently using is located. Be aware that we
may be required to cooperate with legal authorities of this
country, Germany, or the country from which your connection to
our service originates -- but certainly not countries outside the European
Union.

4. Intellectual rights, copyrights and patents
You may not use our service to infringe on other pepole's rights. It
is you responsibility to ensure that by publishing
or acquiring information or data through this service you are not
violating intellectual rights or copyrights, patents or trade secrets.
If we receive sufficient proof that your actions are in violation
of other people's intellectual rights, copyrights or patents, your
account may be voided. Also be aware that we may be required to
cooperate with legal authorities on such matters.

We strictly condemn copyright violations. Downloading or uploading
data in violation of the copyright holder's terms is just another
way of stealing. If this is what you intend to do, please do not become our
customer.

5. Denial of Service attacks, vandalism and hacking attempts
Our service must not be used to cause harm or nuisance to us or
our servers, or to other Internet users, equipment or installations.
We will therefore not tolerate any kind of Denial of Service attacks
or hacking attempts (successful or not), vandalism, or the use of
scripted or otherwise automated chat tools. If you harm others your
account will be voided and your details may be revealed to legal
authorities on their request.

It is your liability to ensure that your PC is not part of a
"bot net" and is not infected by a virus or worm. Please check that
you have suitable protection software installed before using our
service. We do not care if malicious action has been performed
willingly by you or unwillingly by some malware on your system. There
is good protection software available for free and there is no
excuse if you don't use it. Check our Download section for links.

6. Sexually explicit material
Your local mail service is not being held responsible for what
you order and what is delivered to your home or workplace;
neither are we. If you use this service to access "adult"
content, that's fine in our book. However we reserve the right
to stop you from providing sexually explicit content to others,
simply to avoid discussions of what is acceptable and what is
not. If you wish to host a porn web site, go rent a server of
your own.
Be advised that we may be required to cooperate with legal
authorities if you provide or acquire content that is deemed
illegal in one of the countries involved. We do not
cover child porn downloaders.

7. Protection of our service
We reserve the right to void your account if your use of our
service provokes countermeasures such as our IPs being blocked
or our servers being attacked, or if our providers are having kittens
because of your actions. This is not only in our interest but also
in the interest of our other customers who may be affected by such
measures or conditions.
We also reserve the right to protect our service against
over-utilization, be it intentional or unintentional. This
means that we may technically enforce the limitations of
your account profile and may disable or void your account
if you are in violation of these limitations. We may also
temporarily disable your account if your use of the service
has serious impact on the service, whether intentionally or not,
whether caused by a bug or your usage patterns or not, until such
issues have been resolved.
It may be necessary to generally restrict the service in some
way or another to comply with limitations imposed on us by
our providers or by legal authorities. We try to avoid this but
at times we may be left without a choice. This does not justify
a refund, even if your intended use of the service is no longer
possible because of such restrictions. By buying our packages
and vouchers you agree that we may restrict the service
at our discretion to meet requirements by our providers or
legal requirements, and that this does not constitute a claim.

8. Service Availability and Liability
We try our very best to provide a service as good as possible.
However we cannot guarantee that the service will be available
at all times, to a full extend, and from everywhere. If the
service is unavailable or seriously impacted for extended
periods we will reimburse you (on request) by means of crediting
your account with extra time. In the event that it is not possible
for us to provide the service anymore, we will not refund any
payments already made; instead, we will donate the money to
charities if possible.

Under no circumstances will we be liable for any damage or
loss caused by the service, your use of the service or
the unavailability or malfunction of the service, or your
installation and/or use of the client software.

By using our service, you accept these terms and conditions. If you
cannot agree with them then don't use the service. Once you have
started to use the service we do no longer feel obliged to any
reimbursement of payments already made, other than set out in
our refund policy.