"If you could touch the alien sand and hear the cries of strange birds, and 
watch them wheel in another sky, would that satisfy you?"

        — The First Doctor, "An Unearthly Child"
%
"Have you ever thought what it's like to be wanderers in the fourth dimension? 
Have you? To be exiles? Susan and I are cut off from our own planet — without 
friends or protection. But one day we shall get back. Yes, one day..."

        — The First Doctor, "An Unearthly Child"
%
"Fear makes companions of us all, Miss Wright."

        — The First Doctor, "An Unearthly Child"
%
"I don't believe that man was made to be controlled by machines. Machines can 
make laws, but they can not preserve justice. Only human beings can do that."

        — The First Doctor, The Keys of Marinus"
%
"I made some cocoa and got engaged."

        — The First Doctor, summing up his part in "The Aztecs"
%
"You can't rewrite history! Not one line! Believe me child, I know! I know!"

        — The First Doctor, talking to Barbara in "The Aztecs"
%
"It all started out as a mild curiosity in the junkyard and now it's turned out 
to be quite a great spirit of adventure."

        — The First Doctor, "The Sensorites"
%
 — First Doctor: Now listen to me, both of you. You've taken the lock of my 
ship and I want it returned immediately. 
 — Sensorite 1: You're in no position to threaten us. 
 — First Doctor: I don't make threats. But I do keep promises. And I promise 
you I shall cause you more trouble than you bargained for...

        — "The Sensorites"
%
"Our lives are important — at least to us — and as we see, so we learn... 
Our destiny is in the stars, so let's go and search for it."

        — The First Doctor, "The Reign of Terror"
%
"One day, I shall come back. Yes, I shall come back. Until then, there must be 
no regrets, no tears, no anxieties. Just go forward in all your beliefs, and 
prove to me that I am not mistaken in mine."

        — The First Doctor, "The Dalek Invasion of Earth"
%
 — Steven: Say, this is quite a ship you've got here, Doc. Never seen 
anything like it. 
 — First Doctor: Now listen to me, young man. Sit down. Now, there are two 
things you can do. One, sit there until you get your breath back, and two, 
don't call me Doc! Now, do I make myself clear? 
 — Steven: Yes, yes, whatever you say, Doc— Tor!

        — "The Time Meddler"
%
"Your ideas are too narrow, too crippled. I am a citizen of the universe, and a 
gentleman to boot!"

        — The First Doctor, bristling when a policeman asks if he is a 
British citizen, "The Daleks' Master Plan"
%
 — Cyberman: You must come and live with us. 
 — Polly: But we cannot live with you, you're different! You have no 
feelings! 
 — Cyberman: "Feelings"? I do not understand that word. 
 — First Doctor: Emotions! Love! Pride! Hate! Fear! Have you no emotions, sir?

        — "The Tenth Planet"
%
"Oh, so you're my replacements! A dandy and a clown!"

        — The First Doctor's scathing initial assessment of his two immediate 
successors, in the tenth-anniversary Third Doctor serial "The Three Doctors"'
%
 — Ben: [holds up the First Doctor's ring] The Doctor always wore this. If 
you are him it should fit... 
[the Doctor tries to put the ring on, but doesn't fit] 
 — Ben: That settles it! 
 — Second Doctor: I'd like to see a butterfly fit into a chrysalis case after 
it spreads its wings. 
 — Polly: Then you did change. 
 — Second Doctor: Life depends on change, and renewal.

        — "The Power of the Daleks"
%
"There are some corners of the universe which have bred the most terrible 
things. Things that act against everything we believe in. They must be fought."

        — The Second Doctor, "The Moonbase"
%
"I am not a student of human nature. I am a professor of a far wider academy of 
which human nature is merely a part."

        — The Second Doctor, "The Evil of the Daleks"
%
 — Jamie: Have you thought up some clever plan, Doctor? 
 — Second Doctor: Yes, Jamie, I believe I have. 
 — Jamie: What are you going to do? 
 — Second Doctor: Bung a rock at it.

        — "The Abominable Snowmen"
%
 — Jamie: What's a passport? 
 — Second Doctor: Some sort of official mambo jambo.

        — "The Faceless Ones"
%
 — Eric Klieg: Doctor, you seem to be very familiar with this place. 
 — Second Doctor: Oh, no, not really. Umm, it's all based on symbolic logic. 
The same as you use in computers. The opening mechanism for this door — an 
O.R. gate, you call it. 
 — Eric Klieg: Yes, yes, I can see that, but how did you know in the first 
place? 
 — Second Doctor: Oh, I use my own special technique. 
 — Eric Klieg: Oh really, Doctor? And may we know what that is? 
 — Second Doctor: Keeping my eyes open, and my mouth shut. (laughs)

        — "The Tomb of the Cybermen"
%
 — Second Doctor: Are you happy with us, Victoria? 
 — Victoria: Yes, I am. At least, I would be if my father were here. 
 — Second Doctor: Yes, I know, I know. 
 — Victoria: I wonder what he would have thought if he could see me now. 
 — Second Doctor: You miss him very much, don't you? 
 — Victoria: It's only when I close my eyes. I can still see him standing 
there, before those horrible Dalek creatures came to the house. He was a very 
kind man, I shall never forget him. Never. 
 — Second Doctor: No, of course you won't. But, you know, the memory of him 
won't always be a sad one. 
 — Victoria: I think it will. You can't understand, being so ancient. 
 — Second Doctor: Eh? 
 — Victoria: I mean old. 
 — Second Doctor: Oh. 
 — Victoria: You probably can't remember your family. 
 — Second Doctor: Oh yes, I can when I want to. And that's the point, really. 
I have to really want to, to bring them back in front of my eyes. The rest of 
the time they... they sleep in my mind and I forget. And so will you. Oh yes, 
you will. You'll find there's so much else to think about. To remember. Our 
lives are different to anybody else's. That's the exciting thing, that nobody 
in the universe can do what we're doing.

        — "The Tomb of the Cybermen"
%
 — Second Doctor: Don't you see what this is going to mean to all the people 
who come to serve Klieg the all powerful? Why, no country, no person would dare 
to have a single thought that was not your own. Eric Klieg's own conception of 
the, of the way of life! 
 — Eric Klieg: Brilliant! Yes, yes, you're right. Master of the world. 
 — Second Doctor: Well, now I know you're mad, I just wanted to make sure.

        — "The Tomb of the Cybermen"
%
"What pretty crockery this is. Sad really, isn't it? People spend all their 
time making nice things, and other people come along and break them."

        — The Second Doctor, "The Enemy of the World"
%
 — Second Doctor: An unintelligent enemy is far less dangerous than an 
intelligent one, Jamie. 
 — Jamie: Eh? 
 — Second Doctor: Just act stupid. Do you think you can manage that? 
 — Jamie: Oh, aye, it's easy.

        — "The Dominators"
%
"Logic, my dear Zoe, merely enables one to be wrong with authority."

        — The Second Doctor, "The Mind Robber"
%
 — Jamie: Well, what was happening? Why was it so difficult to move? 
 — Second Doctor: It was the Time Lords! 
 — Zoe: But they’re your own people, aren't they Doctor? 
 — Second Doctor: Yes, that's right. 
 — Jamie: Why did you run away from them in the first place? 
 — Second Doctor: What...? Well... I was bored! 
 — Zoe: What do you mean, you were bored? 
 — Second Doctor: Well, the Time Lords are an immensely civilised race. We 
can control our own environment, we can live forever, barring accidents, and we 
have the secret of space time travel. 
 — Jamie: Well, what's so wrong in all that? 
 — Second Doctor: Well, we hardly ever use our great powers. We consent 
simply to observe and to gather knowledge. 
 — Zoe: And that wasn't enough for you? 
 — Second Doctor: No, of course not. With a whole galaxy to explore? Millions 
of planets, aeons of time, countless civilisations to meet? 
 — Jamie: Well, why do they object to you doing all that? 
 — Second Doctor: Well, it is a fact, Jamie, that I do tend to get involved 
with things.

        — "The War Games"
%
"This is, er... Koschei, one of my oldest and dearest friends. We were at... 
school together, you see. Koschei, this is James Robert McCrimmon. He and 
Victoria Waterfield travel with me these days."

        — The Second Doctor, from the Doctor Who Missing Adventures novel 
"The Dark Path"
%
"Your leader will be angry if you kill me! I... I'm a genius."

        — The Second Doctor, talking his way out of being shot down by the 
Ice Warriors; "The Seeds of Death"
%
 — UNIT Soldier: Halt! You're not allowed in there. 
 — Second Doctor: Me? But I'm allowed everywhere!

        — "The Five Doctors"
%
"Now listen to me..."

        — The Third Doctor, every other story
%
 — Third Doctor: Well, I'll tell you something that should be of vital 
interest to you. 
 — Professor Stahlman: And what's that? 
 — Third Doctor: That you, sir, are a nitwit!

        — "Inferno"
%
"You know Jo, I sometimes think that military intelligence is a contradiction 
in terms."

        — The Third Doctor, "Terror of the Autons"
%
"I reversed the polarity of the neutron flow."

        — The Third Doctor, "The Sea Devils"
%
 — Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart: Right, I've fixed with Nuton for the power 
to be off for fifteen minutes. Ready to link up? 
 — Osgood: No, sir. 
 — Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart: Well, when will you be ready, for heaven's 
sake?! 
 — Third Doctor: About next Christmas, I shouldn't wonder! At a rough 
estimate, of course.

        — "The Dæmons"
%
"I always find violent exercise makes me hungry, don't you agree?"

        — The Third Doctor, holding The Master at swordpoint while stealing 
his lunch, "The Sea Devils"
%
 — Jo: Makes it seem so pointless, really, doesn't it? 
 — Third Doctor: I felt like that once when I was young. It was the blackest 
day of my life. 
 — Jo: Why? 
 — Third Doctor: Ah, well, that's another story. I'll tell you about it one 
day. The point is that day was not only my blackest, it was also my best. 
 — Jo: What do you mean? 
 — Third Doctor: Well, when I was a little boy, we used to live in a house 
that was perched halfway up the top of a mountain. And behind our house, there 
sat under a tree an old man, a hermit, a monk. He'd lived under this tree for 
half his lifetime, so they said, and he learned the secret of life. So when my 
black day came I went and asked him to help me. 
 — Jo: He told you the secret? And what was it? 
 — Third Doctor: Oh, I'm coming to that, Jo. In my own time. Ah, I'll never 
forget what it was like up there. All bleak and cold, some few bare rocks with 
some weeds sprouting from them, and some pathetic little patches of sludgy 
snow. It was just grey. Grey, grey, grey. Well, the tree the old man sat under 
was ancient and twisted, and the old man himself was as brittle and dry as a 
leaf in the autumn. 
 — Jo: But what did he say? 
 — Third Doctor: Nothing. Not a word. He just sat there silently, 
expressionless. He listened whilst I poured out my troubles to him. I was too 
unhappy even for tears, I remember. And when I finished, he lifted a skeletal 
hand, and he pointed. Do you know what he pointed at? 
 — Jo: No. 
 — Third Doctor: A flower. One of those little weeds. Just like a daisy, it 
was. Well, I looked at it for a moment, and suddenly I saw it through his eyes. 
It was simply glowing with life, like a perfectly cut jewel. And the colours– 
the colours were deeper and richer than anything you could possibly imagine. It 
was the daisiest daisy I'd ever seen. 
 — Jo: And that was the secret of life? A daisy? Honestly, Doctor... 
 — Third Doctor: Yes, I laughed too when I first heard it. So later I got up, 
and I ran down that mountain, and I found that the rocks weren't grey at all. 
They were red, brown and purple gold. And those pathetic little patches of 
sludgy snow, they were shining white. Shining white with sunlight... Are you 
still frightened, Jo? 
 — Jo: No. Not as much as I was. 
 — Third Doctor: That's good... I'm sorry I brought you to Atlantis. 
 — Jo: I'm not. 
 — Third Doctor: Thank you.

        — "The Time Monster"
%
 — Second Doctor: I'm sorry, my dear, I hate to be contrary but I can see 
he's a little bit confused, poor old chap, and I do feel you should have the 
correct explanation. (to the Third Doctor) You don't mind, do you? 
 — Third Doctor: (sternly) Yes. 
 — Second Doctor: (without skipping a beat) I didn't think you would. You 
see, Jo. I may call you "Jo", mayn't I? You see... He is one of me! 
 — Jo: Oh, I see! You're both Time Lords. 
 — Second Doctor: Quite! ...Well, not quite. 
 — Jo: Oh... 
 — Second Doctor: Not, not just Time Lords. We're the same Time Lord. 
 — Third Doctor: Now please, you're only confusing my assistant. Jo, it's all 
quite simple — I am he and he is me! 
 — Jo: And we are all together, goo goo g'joob? 
 — Both Doctors: What? 
 — Jo: It's a song by The Beatles. 
 — Second Doctor: Really? How does it go? (brings the recorder to his lips) 
 — Third Doctor: Oh, please be quiet!

        — "The Three Doctors"
%
"Courage isn't just a matter of not being afraid. It's being afraid and doing 
what you have to do anyway."

        — The Third Doctor, "Planet of the Daleks"
%
 — The Master: Nobody could be more devoted to the cause of peace than I! As 
a commissioner of Earth's Interplanetary Police, I have devoted my life to the 
cause of law and order; And law and order can only exist in a time of peace. 
 — Third Doctor: Are you feeling all right, old chap?

        — "Frontier in Space"
%
"You know, for a man who abhors violence, I took great satisfaction in doing 
that."

        — The Third Doctor on taking out a Dalek, "Planet of the Daleks"
%
"So... the fledgling flies the coop."

        — The Third Doctor, foreseeing the imminent loss of his long time 
companion in "The Green Death"
%
"A straight line may be the shortest distance between two points, but it is by 
no means the most interesting."

        — The Third Doctor, "The Time Warrior"
%
 — Sarah Jane: You're serious, aren't you? 
 — Third Doctor: About what I do? Yes, not necessarily the way I do it.

        — "The Time Warrior"
%
"Good grief, it's a triceratops! Look Brigadier, try and keep it occupied while 
I'm finishing this off, will you?"

        — The Third Doctor, "Invasion of the Dinosaurs"
%
"A tear, Sarah Jane?" (gently cups Sarah's cheek with his hand) "...No, don't 
cry. While there's life, there's..." (sighs and goes limp)

        — The Third Doctor's last words, "Planet of the Spiders"
%
"You may be a doctor, but I'm the Doctor. The definite article, you might say."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Robot"
%
 — Sarah Jane: Doctor, you're being childish! 
 — Fourth Doctor: Well, of course I am! There's no point in being grown up if 
you can't be childish sometimes.

        — "Robot"
%
 — Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart: A few months ago, the superpowers, Russia, 
America and China, decided upon a plan to ensure peace. All three powers have 
hidden atomic missile sites. All three agreed to give details of those sites 
plus full operational instructions to another neutral country. In the event of 
trouble, that country could publish everyone's secrets and so cool things down. 
Well, naturally enough, the only country that could be trusted with such a role 
was Great Britain. 
 — Fourth Doctor: (with obvious sarcasm) Well, naturally. I mean, the rest 
were all foreigners. 
 — Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart: Well, exactly— (realizes the Doctor was 
sarcastic)

        — "Robot"
%
"It may be irrational of me, but human beings are quite my favorite species."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "The Ark in Space"
%
"Homo sapiens! What an inventive, invincible species. It's only a few million 
years since they crawled up out of the mud and learned to walk. Puny, 
defenseless bipeds. They've survived flood, famine and plague. They've survived 
cosmic wars and holocausts and now here they are, out amongst the stars, 
waiting to begin a new life. Ready to out-sit eternity. They're indomitable. 
Indomitable."

        — The Fourth Doctor, musing on humanity, "The Ark in Space"
%
 — Fourth Doctor: Davros, if you had created a virus in your laboratory, 
something contagious and infectious that killed on contact, a virus that would 
destroy all other forms of life; would you allow its use? 
 — Davros: It is an interesting conjecture. 
 — Fourth Doctor: Would you do it? 
 — Davros: The only living thing... The microscopic organism... reigning 
supreme... A fascinating idea! 
 — Fourth Doctor: But would you do it? 
 — Davros: Yes; yes. To hold in my hand, a capsule that contained such power. 
To know that life and death on such a scale was my choice. To know that the 
tiny pressure on my thumb, enough to break the glass, would end... 
everything... Yes! I would do it! That power would set me up above the gods! 
AND THROUGH THE DALEKS I SHALL HAVE THAT POWER!

        — "Genesis of the Daleks"
%
"Just touch these two strands together, and the Daleks are finished. Have I 
that right?"

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Genesis of the Daleks"
%
"You can't rule the world in hiding. You've got to come out on the balcony 
sometimes and wave a tentacle."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Terror of the Zygons"
%
"I'm not a human being; I walk in eternity..."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Pyramids of Mars"
%
"Deactivating a generator loop without the correct key is like repairing a 
watch with a hammer and chisel. One false move and you'll never know the time 
again."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Pyramids of Mars"
%
 — Sarah Jane: So, providing we don't burn up on re-entry and aren't 
suffocated on the way down, we'll probably be smashed to a pulp when we land. 
 — Fourth Doctor: Exactly! Sarah, you've put your finger on the one tiny flaw 
in our plan. 
 — Sarah Jane: Our plan? It's your plan!

        — "The Android Invasion"
%
 — Fourth Doctor: You humans have got such limited, little minds. I don't 
know why I like you so much. 
 — Sarah Jane: Because you have such good taste. 
 — Fourth Doctor: That's true! That's very true.

        — "The Masque of Mandragora"
%
 — Fourth Doctor: Hello, did I startle you? Don't be afraid. I won't hurt 
you. 
 — Leela: (gasps) The Evil One! 
 — Fourth Doctor: ...Well, nobody's perfect, but that's overstating it a 
little.

        — "The Face of Evil"
%
 — Fourth Doctor: (holds up a jelly baby) Now drop your weapons or I'll kill 
him with this deadly jelly baby! 
 — Warrior: Kill him, then. 
 — Fourth Doctor: What? 
 — Warrior: Kill him, then. 
 — Fourth Doctor: I don't take orders from anyone! (eats the jelly baby) Take 
me to your leader.

        — "The Face of Evil"
%
 — Neeva: (dances as he shakes an object at the tied-up Doctor) ♪Hi ya, hi 
ya, hi ya, haaaah!♪ 
 — Fourth Doctor: I'd be careful of that if I were you. It's an ultrabeam 
accelerator. 
 — Neeva: (keeps shaking the object) See how it fears the sacred relics of 
Xoanon! 
 — Fourth Doctor: If there happens to be a charge in there, you could 
transform this whole village into a smoky hole in the ground. 
 — Neeva: Hear how it threatens us! 
 — Fourth Doctor: Yes, well, look... If you'll just untie my hands, I think I 
have an idea of what's going on. I may be able to help. 
 — Neeva: Hear how it squirms for release! 
 — Fourth Doctor: (sighs) 
 — Neeva: ♪Hi ya, haaaah!♪ It cannot deceive us! 
 — Fourth Doctor: Oh no, I can see you're a person of very superior intellect.

        — "The Face of Evil"
%
"The very powerful and the very stupid have one thing in common. They don't 
alter their views to fit the facts; they alter the facts to fit their views. 
Which can be uncomfortable if you happen to be one of the facts that needs 
altering."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "The Face of Evil"
%
"Gentlemen, I've got news for you: this lighthouse is under attack and by 
morning we might all be dead!" [grins widely]

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Horror of Fang Rock"
%
"That's the empty rhetoric of a defeated dictator, and I don't like your face 
either."

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Horror of Fang Rock"
%
 — Stor: I am Commander Stor of the Sontaran Special Space Service. 
 — Fourth Doctor: "The SSSS"? Eh, isn't that carrying alliteration a little 
far?

        — The Invasion of Time
%
 — Romana I: But he had such an honest face! 
 — Fourth Doctor: Well, you could hardly be a successful criminal with a 
dishonest face.

        — "The Ribos Operation"
%
 — Kimus: Do you drive these things for a living? 
 — Fourth Doctor: No. I save planets, mostly.

        — "The Pirate Planet"
%
 — Amelia Rumford: Can I ask you a personal question? 
 — Fourth Doctor: Well, I don't see how I can stop you asking. 
 — Amelia Rumford: Are you from outer space? 
 — Fourth Doctor: No, I'm more from what you would call "inner time".

        — "The Stones of Blood"
%
"Oh look, rocks!"

        — The Fourth Doctor, "Destiny of the Daleks"
%
 — Romana II: Where are we going? 
 — Fourth Doctor: Are you talking philosophically or geographically? 
 — Romana II: Philosophically. 
 — Fourth Doctor: Then we're going to lunch.

        — "City of Death"
%
 — Duggan: What's Scarlioni's angle? 
 — Fourth Doctor: "Scarlioni's angle"? Never heard of it. Have you ever heard 
of Scarlioni's angle? 
 — Romana II: No, I was never any good at geometry.

        — "City of Death"
%
 — Skagra: "Take over the Universe"!? How childish. Who could possibly want 
to take over the Universe? 
 — Fourth Doctor: Exactly! That's what I keep on trying to tell people. It's 
a troublesome place, difficult to administer, and as a piece of real estate 
it's worthless because by definition there'd be no one to sell it to.

        — From the script of "Shada"
%
 — Romana II: I don't think we should interfere. 
 — Fourth Doctor: Interfere? Of course we should interfere. Always do what 
you're best at.

        — "Nightmare of Eden"
%
"I have an urgent appointment with an old friend. Well, I say a 'friend', I 
mean a vengeance-fixated sociopath with megalomaniacal tendencies."

        — The Fourth Doctor on the Master, "Trail of the White Worm"
%
"That's the trouble with regeneration. You never quite know what you're going 
to get."

        — The Fifth Doctor on his new appearence, "Castrovalva"
%
[to a group of women] "What is the fastest way out of town?" [they all point in 
different directions] "Yes. Well, that's democracy for you."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Castrovalva"
%
"An apple a day keeps the... Ah. No, never mind."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Kinda"
%
 — Sir Robert: Superb innings! Worthy of the Master! 
 — Fifth Doctor: [alarmed] The Master?! 
 — Sir Robert: Well, the other Doctor! [the Doctor still looks alarmed] W.G. 
Grace! 
 — Fifth Doctor: [relieved] Yes, of course.

        — "Black Orchid"
%
 — Fifth Doctor: When was the last time you smelt a flower, watched a sunset, 
ate a well-prepared meal? 
 — Cyberleader: These things are irrelevant. 
 — Fifth Doctor: For some people, small, beautiful events is what life is all 
about!

        — "Earthshock"
%
"You won't succeed. In the end, evil never does."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Snakedance"
%
 — Fifth Doctor It's amazing. 
 — Nyssa: What? 
 — Fifth Doctor This thing is smaller on the inside than it is on the outside.

        — The Fifth Doctor on the Concorde, "Time-Flight"
%
"The illusion is always one of normality."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Time-Flight"
%
"You know how it is; you put things off for a day and next thing you know, it's 
a hundred years later."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Arc of Infinity"
%
"Sorry, must dash!"

        — The Fifth Doctor, "The Five Doctors"
%
"(after bidding his past incarnations goodbye) I'm definitely not the man I 
was. (relieved) Thank Goodness!"

        — The Fifth Doctor, "The Five Doctors"
%
"There should have been another way..."

        — The Fifth Doctor on the absurdly high body count in his stories, 
"Warriors of the Deep"
%
 — Sir George: You speak treason! 
 — Fifth Doctor: Fluently!

        — "The Awakening"
%
"Oh, marvelous. You're going to kill me. What a finely-tuned response to the 
situation."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Frontios"
%
"I'm not helping... officially. And if anyone happens to ask whether I made any 
material difference to the welfare of this planet, you can tell them I came and 
went like a summer cloud."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Frontios"
%
"I tried keeping a diary once. Not chronological, of course. But the trouble 
with time travel is, one never seems to find the time."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "The Caves of Androzani"
%
 — Peri: Doctor, why do you wear a stick of celery in your lapel? 
 — Fifth Doctor: Does it offend you? 
 — Peri: No, just curious. 
 — Fifth Doctor: Safety precaution. I'm allergic to certain gases in the 
praxis range of the spectrum. 
 — Peri: Well, how does the celery help? 
 — Fifth Doctor: If the gas is present, the celery turns purple. 
 — Peri: And then what do you do? 
 — Fifth Doctor: I eat the celery. If nothing else I'm sure it's good for my 
teeth.

        — "The Caves of Androzani"
%
 — Stolz: You better turn this ship around, Doctor! 
 — Fifth Doctor: Why? 
 — Stolz: Because I'll kill you if you don't! 
 — Fifth Doctor: [feverish] Not a very persuasive argument, actually, Stolz, 
because I'm going to die soon anyway. Unless of course– 
 — Stolz: I'll give you until the count of three! 
 — Fifth Doctor: [now absolutely resolute] Unless of course I can find the 
antidote! I owe it to my friend to try because I got her into this! So you see, 
I'm not gonna let you stop me now!

        — "The Caves of Androzani"
%
"I've travelled quite widely, met the most appalling people with the most 
terrible beliefs. I consider them evil, but I'm sure if you were to ask them 
they'd tell you that I'm the monster, not them. Evil is relative."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Primeval"
%
"How did it start? Just a few hip replacements and breast implants? Vanity's a 
killer, isn't it? And where will it end?! Sleek, heartless scavengers cobbled 
up from space junk and other people's bodies! But you'll look ever so stylish!"

        — The Fifth Doctor on the Cybermen, "Spare Parts"
%
 — Fifth Doctor: Well, all right. As you asked nicely, I will tell you why 
I'm here. Would you believe I'm a correspondent from the Good Cell Guide, and 
I'm delighted to tell you that I haven't enjoyed my stay at all, and I'm 
awarding you a four out of a possible five slop buckets? 
 — Richard III: Oh, we are too damn clever by half, aren't we? 
 — Fifth Doctor: Actually, no, I tell a lie! I'm a performance artist from 
the 20th century and this is my latest instillation. I was going to call it 
"Two Men Chained to a Wall" but then I thought "Freedom" would give it a bit 
more intellectual gravitas. 
 — Richard III: [with absolutely withering sarcasm] Very funny, Doctor. I 
will just collect my head from the floor where I just laughed it off.

        — "The Kingmaker"
%
"People aren't perfect, Zara, that's what makes them people..."

        — The Fifth Doctor, "The Chaos Pool"
%
"That could blow a hole in the space-time continuum, the size of— [the Tenth 
Doctor turns the TARDIS console screen towards him] ...Well, actually, the 
exact size of Belgium. That's a bit undramatic, isn't it? 'Belgium'?"

        — The Fifth Doctor, "Time Crash"
%
 — Peri: Doctor? 
 — Sixth Doctor: ...You were expecting someone else? 
 — Peri: I-I-I... 
 — Sixth Doctor: That's three "I's" in one breath — makes you sound a 
rather egotistical young lady. 
 — Peri: What's happened? 
 — Sixth Doctor: Change, my dear. [staring into the camera] And it seems not 
a moment too soon. [puts on a proud grin]

        — The introduction of the Sixth Doctor, "The Caves of Androzani"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: [admiring his new visage in a hand-mirror] Ahhh... a noble 
brow. Clear gaze. At least it will be given a few hours sleep. A firm mouth. A 
face beaming with a vast intelligence. My dear child, what on Earth are you 
complaining about? It's the most extraordinary improvement. 
 — Peri: On what?! 
 — Sixth Doctor: My last incarnation... Oh, I was never happy with that one. 
 — Peri: Why ever not? 
 — Sixth Doctor: It had a sort of feckless "charm" which simply wasn't me!

        — "The Twin Dilemma"
%
"Well, look at me. I'm old, lacking in vigour, my mind's in turmoil. I no 
longer know if I'm coming, have gone, or even been. I'm falling to pieces. I no 
longer even have any clothes sense... Self-pity is all I have left."

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The Twin Dilemma"
%
"In my time, I have been threatened by experts. And I don't rate you highly at 
all."

        — The Sixth Doctor to Mestor, the Big Bad of the Week, "The Twin 
Dilemma"
%
"Rest is for the weary, sleep is for the dead. I feel like a hungry man eager 
for the feast!"

        — The Sixth Doctor, "Attack of the Cybermen"
%
"What's the use of a good quotation if you can't change it?"

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The Two Doctors"
%
 — Davros: This part of the galaxy is developing quickly. Famine was one of 
its major problems. 
 — Sixth Doctor: You turned them into food? 
 — Davros: A scheme that has earned me great acclaim. 
 — Sixth Doctor: But did you bother to tell anyone they might be eating their 
own relatives? 
 — Davros: Certainly not! That would have created what I believe is termed... 
"consumer resistance".

        — "Revelation of the Daleks"
%
"Planets come and go. Stars perish. Matter disperses, coalesces, forms into 
other patterns, other worlds. Nothing can be eternal."

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The Mysterious Planet"
%
"This is a situation that requires tact and finesse. Fortunately, I am blessed 
with both."

        — The Sixth Doctor, "Terror of the Vervoids"
%
"In all my travelling throughout the universe I have battled against evil, 
against power-mad conspirators. I should have stayed here. The oldest 
civilisation: decadent, degenerate, and rotten to the core. Power-mad 
conspirators, Daleks, Sontarans... Cybermen, they're still in the nursery 
compared to us. Ten million years of absolute power. That's what it takes to be 
really corrupt!"

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The Ultimate Foe"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: Sorry, I was wrong. 
 — Peri: "Wrong"? That would be a first. 
 — Berkeley: You mean, he's never wrong? 
 — Peri: I mean, he never admits it.

        — "Whispers of Terror"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: I'm asking if you do what you firmly believe is good and 
right. However much it hurts you and others. And no matter what happens as a 
consequence, does what's in your hearts– heart make you a good person? 
 — Sarah: We are taught that God has infinite mercy, Doctor. But surely, as a 
God-fearing man, you have no need to trouble yourself on this? 
 — Sixth Doctor: Oh, Sarah... If only you knew. 
 — Sarah: Tell me. 
 — Sixth Doctor: [sighs] What would you say if I were to tell you that I once 
destroyed an entire race, that I have led friends to their deaths, and caused 
numerous wars? That my intervention has led to peaceful races taking up arms 
and good people having their faith or reason destroyed. Because I failed to 
act, millions upon millions of people have been enslaved or killed? What if I 
had done all those things, but had always, always believed I was doing to the 
right thing? 
 — Sarah: If you were to tell me that, I would say: May God have mercy on 
your soul. 
 — Sixth Doctor: Sarah... 
 — Sarah: But I would also say: I trust and pray that He will. 
 — Sixth Doctor: ...thank you.

        — "The Marian Conspiracy"
%
"You can't take it in, can you? Oh, the blessing of a human mind. It's a matter 
of perspective, Evelyn. Let's take your own galaxy, the Milky Way, an area of 
space so vast that if it were reduced to the size of the United States of 
America the Earth would be less than the smallest mote of dust barely visible 
through an electron microscope. Serephia is four times the size of the Milky 
Way and in just a few hours six hundred billion stars will be as snuffed out 
candles to a new sun, a ball of fire 400, 000 light years across and from there 
it will spread on and on and on through the 100 billion other galaxies in the 
universe! The death toll will be as incalculable as it will be absolute and by 
the end there will be nothing left! Nothing!"

        — The Sixth Doctor on the horrible implications of the Daleks' latest 
Evil Plan, "The Apocalypse Element"
%
"Am I not permitted an occasional moment of melodrama?"

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The One Doctor"
%
 — Banto: Awe inspiring? In that coat? Have you taken a look in the mirror 
recently? Come to think of it, I shouldn’t think you do much else. 
 — Sixth Doctor: I intend to rise above your barbs... but before I do I’d 
like to say that this coat can only be appreciated by someone with a sharpened 
aesthetic sense — not a dunderhead like you! 
 — Banto: "Sharpened aesthetic sense"!? Sharpened by what, a dose of mind 
altering drugs? 
 — Sixth Doctor: I warn you, a verbal duel with me would only lead to 
ignominy for you! 
 — Banto: Igno-what? Talking with you is like arguing with a thesaurus!

        — "The One Doctor"
%
"Whoever heard of a diabolical denouement occurring in a patisserie?!"

        — The Sixth Doctor, "The Wormery"
%
 — Evelyn: He does irk you, doesn't he? 
 — Sixth Doctor: Er, not him. The way the universe treated him. Being him was 
like a holiday. A very wonderful holiday.

        — "The 100 Days of the Doctor", the Doctor explains his troubled 
feelings about his fifth incarnation
%
"From what I've heard he was always blowing up planets. And they call me the 
aggressive one!"

        — The Sixth Doctor on the Seventh Doctor, "The 100 Days of the Doctor"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: What have you done with the TARDIS interior design, by the 
way? 
 — Eighth Doctor: I hope you are not about to lecture me about taste, Doctor? 
 — Sixth Doctor: I'm not sure what you mean.

        — "The Four Doctors"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: Probably just as well that we won't remember. After all... 
 — Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Doctors: ...We Time Lords already have 
too much to remember as it is! 
 — Sixth Doctor: [laughs] I see great minds think alike! 
 — Seventh Doctor: Or fools never differ... 
 — Sixth Doctor: Oh, very droll.

        — "The Four Doctors"
%
 — Older Sixth Doctor: Hello again, Mel. Two of you and two of me, this could 
get confusing. 
 — Younger Sixth Doctor: Not at all! This is the Mel I deposited here for our 
future self to collect, lets call her "Melanie A" shall we? 
 — Older Mel: I'm here you know... 
 — Younger Sixth Doctor: ...and the younger version is "Mel B". 
 — Older Mel: What if another "B" turns up. Who's she? "Mel C"? 
 — Older Sixth Doctor: No! That cannot be allowed to happen. 
 — Younger Sixth Doctor: Yes. Wrong decade for the Spice Girls.

        — "The Wrong Doctors"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: All these plans, these events. You're getting your ducks in 
row! Even though some haven't hatched, and others are sitting in a pecourt 
orange sauce. 
 — Petherbridge: Oh? Accusing me of "fowl" play, Doctor? But you're the one 
whose goose has been cooked! 
 — Sixth Doctor: Oh, forget the poultry puns, Petherbridge!

        — "The Wrong Doctors"
%
 — The Valeyard: [shivering] Doctor? Doctor?! 
 — Sixth Doctor: [chuckles weakly] Cold, isn't it? [chuckles again] 
 — The Valeyard: You idiot! You've killed us both! You've robbed yourself of 
a future! 
 — Sixth Doctor: A future as you? That's no future at all... [sighs] I've 
lived a good life, by and large... 
 — The Valeyard: Oh, please, spare me the— 
 — Sixth Doctor: Why should I? You didn't intend to spare me. You were 
prepared to sacrifice me and all of Time Lord civilisation, in the cause of 
your monstrous, twisted ego. Frankly, I'll die happy, if the last words you 
ever hear are mine. Words in praise of the best of times: Peri, Mel, Evelyn, 
Flip, Mila, Constance, and all the others! 
 — The Valeyard: And yet, you'll leave Mel to die in your TARDIS? 
 — Sixth Doctor: She won't die. [sing-song] That radiation won't kill her! 
[normal voice] It's only deadly to Time Lords! The TARDIS will land on 
Lakertya, Mel will survive. And the Time Lords will survive — imperfect 
though they are. At least they won't be insane manifestations of you. 
 — The Valeyard: You can't let me die! I'm part of you! 
 — Sixth Doctor: You're nothing to me! 
 — The Valeyard: What about your precious moral scruples!? 
[beat] 
 — Sixth Doctor: [with grim finality] They died with me...

        — The Doctor of the alternate timeline faces his death, "The Brink of 
Death"
%
 — Sixth Doctor: Oh, so, that's it? Oh, well. [groans as he collapses] I've 
had good innings... [groans in pain] All those lives I've lived... I hope the 
footprint I leave will be... light, but... apposite. 
 — Seventh Doctor: [inside the Doctor's mind] It's far from being all over... 
 — Sixth Doctor: Who said that?! Who is that? Who's there...? [loses 
consciousness]

        — The Doctor of the prime timeline faces his death, "The Brink of 
Death"
%
"Think about me when you're living your life one day after another, all in a 
neat pattern. Think about the homeless traveller in his old police box, his 
days like crazy paving."

        — The Seventh Doctor, "Dragonfire"
%
 — John: Sugar? 
 — Seventh Doctor: Ah! A decision... Would it make any difference? 
 — John: Would make your tea sweet. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Yes, but beyond the confines of my taste buds, would it 
make any difference? 
 — John: Not really. 
 — Seventh Doctor: But... 
 — John: Yeah? 
 — Seventh Doctor: What if I could control people's taste buds? What if I 
decided that no one would take sugar? That'd make a difference to those who 
sell the sugar and those who cut the cane. 
 — John: My father, he was a cane cutter! 
 — Seventh Doctor: Exactly. Now if no one had used sugar, your father 
wouldn't have been a cane cutter. 
 — John: If this sugar thing had never started, my great grandfather wouldn't 
have been kidnapped, chained up and sold in Kingston in the first place. I'd be 
a African. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Every great decision creates ripples, like a huge boulder 
dropped in a lake. The ripples merge and rebound off the banks in unforeseeable 
ways. The heavier the decision, the larger the waves, the more uncertain the 
consequences. 
 — John: Life's like that. Best thing is just to get on with it.

        — "Remembrance of the Daleks"
%
 — Davros: We shall become all— 
 — Seventh Doctor: Powerful! Crush the lesser races! Conquer the galaxy! 
Unimaginable power! Unlimited rice pudding! Etcetera, etcetera!

        — "Remembrance of the Daleks"
%
"Oi! Dalek! Over here. It's me, the Doctor. What's the matter with you? Don't 
you recognise your mortal enemy?"

        — The Seventh Doctor, ''"Remembrance of the Daleks"
%
 — Group Captain Gilmore: What am I dealing with? Little green men? 
 — Seventh Doctor: No, little green blobs in bonded polycarbide armour!

        — "Remembrance of the Daleks"
%
"I can hear the sound of empires toppling."

        — The Seventh Doctor, "The Happiness Patrol"
%
 — Sniper 1: Stay where you are. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Why? Scared? Why should you be scared? You're the one with 
the gun. 
 — Sniper 1: That's right. 
 — Seventh Doctor: And you like guns, don't you? 
 — Sniper 2: He'll kill you. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Of course he will! That's what guns are for. Pull a 
trigger. End a life. Simple, isn't it? 
 — Sniper 1: Yes. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Makes sense, doesn't it? 
 — Sniper 1: Yes! 
 — Seventh Doctor: A life, killing life. 
 — Sniper 2: Who are you? 
 — Seventh Doctor: [to Sniper 2] Shut up! [to Sniper 1, softly] Why don't you 
do it then? Look me in the eye. Pull the trigger. End my life. 
 — Sniper 1: [scared] ...No. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Why not? 
 — Sniper 1: ...I can't. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Why not? 
 — Sniper 1: I don't know. 
 — Seventh Doctor: [gently takes the gun out of Sniper 1's hand] No, you 
don't, do you?

        — "The Happiness Patrol"
%
[cheerily] "Hello! I'm the Doctor! I believe you want to kill me?"

        — The Seventh Doctor, "Silver Nemesis"
%
"Let me guess: my heresies appall you, my theories outrage you, I never answer 
letters, and you don't like my tie."

        — The Seventh Doctor, "Ghost Light"
%
 — Ace: Don't you have things you hate? 
 — Seventh Doctor: I can't stand burnt toast. I loathe bus stations — 
terrible places, full of lost luggage and lost souls. And then there's 
unrequited love, and tyranny, and cruelty.

        — "Ghost Light"
%
"There are worlds out there where the sky is burning, and the sea's asleep, and 
the rivers dream; people made of smoke and cities made of song. Somewhere 
there's danger, somewhere there's injustice, somewhere else the tea's getting 
cold. Come on, Ace. We've got work to do."

        — The Seventh Doctor, "Survival" (the last piece of dialogue in the 
Classic Series)
%
"During the night [Ace] would wake up at the distant sound of landing and be 
concerned. After the first time, she had asked the Doctor what he did at night. 
'Putting props in place,' he had said, 'making sure people know their lines, 
sometimes leaving notes on the script. All the universe is a stage, Ace! Acting 
is not enough for me; I like to direct.'"

        — Timewyrm: Revelation
%
[Ace and the Doctor stands before a deep pit] 
 — Ace: Professor, what's down there? 
 — Seventh Doctor: I don't know. [smiles sadly at Ace] How long is the coast 
of Britain? 
 — Ace: What? No idea. [looks down into the pit] 
 — Seventh Doctor: [raises Ace's head to face him with his hand] Don't gaze 
into the void. Nietzsche said something similar, also interesting things about 
fighting monsters. Pity about the rest of it. No. This is important. You could 
measure the coastline, couldn't you? 
 — Ace: Yeah, 'spose so. 
 — Seventh Doctor: [deadly serious] But how carefully do you measure? With a 
metre ruler? With a tape measure? Do you map every pebble, every tiny rockpool, 
even if they remained after the tide? 
 — Ace: Well– 
 — Seventh Doctor: You could go down to atomic level, making finer and finer 
measurements. You find more and more length, more little details. The length of 
the coast is infinite, the measurement depends on your distance from it. 
 — Ace: That's stupid. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Perhaps. Like the edge of a snowflake or like this place. 
The dimensions are fractional, the length of information is infinite... You can 
express shapes like that as equations. The Timewyrm virus is an equation like 
that. 
 — Ace: You mean it's infinite? 
 — Seventh Doctor: Yes. Fractal. Its appearance depends only on the scale you 
view it from. Like that bully, Boyle. He's not important, he's very important, 
he's the whole world. Are you following me? 
 — Ace: Yeah. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Using the equations you can write poetry, verse that 
corresponds to the dimensions of the Wyrm itself. I learnt a poem like that, a 
long time ago. I found it deep in my own dreams, instructed by a great teacher, 
before I found out all of what I am. The Timewyrm doesn't know its own 
potential, either. It can't hear the equations that make it, and it can't hear 
the message I sent, either. 
 — Ace: [sighs] I don't know what you mean, Professor. 
 — Seventh Doctor: Life is a fractal thing, Ace. From a distance, a distance 
like Hemmings saw it from, it's very simple, a question of cause and effect. 
You push, it moves. Life isn't like that. The smallest things have the biggest 
consequences. The beat of a butterfly's wing may topple a civilization. Life is 
chaos, and chaos never dies.

        — Timewyrm: Revelation
%
 — Seventh Doctor: Are you looking for the butterfly? 
 — Ace: What, the one who beats its wings and it tips the balance so a 
hurricane forms? There isn't one, is there? 
 — Seventh Doctor: Not often. We just tell the butterflies that to keep them 
happy. No. Mostly they break the butterfly on the wheel of time. But over the 
decades and millions of butterflies... the weather still changes somehow. 
That's time; a million multi-colored pieces of time.

        — "The Fearmonger"
%
 — Vi Yulquen: Are you... excited by violence? 
 — Seventh Doctor: No, I abhor it. And it is never the moral option. 
 — Vi Yulquen: And how would you know that? 
 — Seventh Doctor: I've seen things that would make you curl into a 
stuttering ball of denial for the rest your life! I've done those things. I've 
pulled a trigger, pressed a button, detonated a bomb. [sighs] It doesn't make 
you feel any better just because you win. 
 — Vi Yulquen: You're fortunate to have had the experience. You've made the 
choice not to be violent. Celia and I can't do that. 
 — Celia Fortunaté: It's simply a concept to us. 
 — Seventh Doctor: I know. I've seen it before; you remove and alter 
everything disagreeable to make yourself "better". You cut and you cut, but you 
cut too well and you find that the very thing you've rid yourself off, the very 
thing you are now denied, is what you so desperately want... I understand you. 
You're depraved on the account of being deprived.

        — "Red"
%
 — Seventh Doctor: The funny thing is... Switzerland? Now I know I am 
suffering from memory loss. But, that seems wrong to me. 
 — Queenie Glasscock: What do you mean? 
 — Seventh Doctor: Well, whoever I am, I am not the person who would say 
"Let's go to Switzerland!" It just sounds wrong coming out of my mouth. 
 — Queenie: It does? 
 — Seventh Doctor: "I say. How about a trip to Vevey? Oh the Cantons are so 
lovely at this time of the year. I do love the cheese with the holes." It's 
just not very me, is it? I mean, do you believe I like that sort of thing? 
"Vevey"? "Cantons"? I mean, do you? I don't even know the name of this place.

        — "The Magic Mousetrap"
%
 — Evelyn: What happened to you, Doctor? 
 — Seventh Doctor: I used to march around saying things like "Don't worry, 
Evelyn; it'll all work out for the best in some way I haven't quite thought up 
yet!" How did that work out for us? How did that work out for Cassandra 
Schofield? I need to be in control. 
 — Evelyn: You can't control everything. 
 — Seventh Doctor: I can certainly try.

        — "A Death in the Family"
%
 — Koloon: Doctor! Pity me! 
 — Seventh Doctor: Fear me. 
 — Koloon: Wha... what? 
 — Seventh Doctor: Tell this to your gods, when they punish you, when they 
stretch you on the neutron rack: I'm still here. 
 — Koloon: But you...?! You're one... little... man! 
 — Seventh Doctor: No, not a man. Not a human being. I am a complex 
space-time event. I am Lord President of Gallifrey. The Traveller from Beyond 
Time. I am the Sandman! The Oncoming Storm! I am the Ka Faraq Gatri; Destroyer 
of Worlds! And sometimes... only sometimes, I. Am. Your. Worst. Nightmare! ...I 
am the Doctor, and I take care of my friends.

        — "Afterlife"
%
"Death, taxes, and Daleks, Ace, you can't stop them. But you can learn to cheat 
all three. I have."

        — The Seventh Doctor, "The Lights of Skaro"
%
 — Eighth Doctor: A meteor storm... The sky above us was dancing with lights! 
Purple, green, brilliant yellow... YES! 
 — Dr. Grace Holloway: What? 
 — Eighth Doctor: These shoes! (stomps the ground happily) They fit perfectly!

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
(The Doctor joins Grace in the elevator)
%
 — Eighth Doctor: Puccini! We've met before. 
 — Grace: Ugh. I don't think so. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes, yes, yes, I think so! I know you! You're...You're 
tired of life, but afraid of dying.

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
 — Grace: Listen, why don't you just have a seat and open your shirt? I want 
to listen to your heart. 
 — Eighth Doctor: [grinning] Hearts. Plural. 
 — Grace: Right! Right...

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
 — Grace: [sceptically] Okay, you're trying to tell me you came back from the 
dead? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes. 
 — Grace: No, sorry, the dead stay dead. You can't turn back time. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes, you can. 
 — Grace: I'm not a child. Don't treat me like I'm a child, only children 
believe that crap. I am a doctor. 
 — Eighth Doctor: But it was a childish dream that made you a doctor. You 
dreamt you could hold back death. Isn't that true? [Grace looks back at the 
Doctor for a moment, astonished and then begins to walk away] Don't be sad, 
Grace. You'll do great things.

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
(Grace has run back to her house, locking The Doctor outside) 
 — Eighth Doctor: (speaking through the mail slot) Grace! Let me in! We can 
sit down, have a cup of tea, we can talk about this! 
 — Grace: Sure! Time Lord to Earthling! 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes, that's right. I am a Time Lord. 
 — Grace: I thought you were a doctor?! 
 — Eighth Doctor: I thought YOU were a doctor!

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
"Grace, I came back to life before your eyes. I held back death. Look, I can't 
make your dream come true forever, but I can make it come true today!"

        — The Eighth Doctor, Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
 — Grace: Why don't you have the ability to transform into another species? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Well, I do...but only when I die. 
 — Grace: And that rival Time Lord, the Master? 
 — Eighth Doctor: He's on his last life, fighting to survive. And the science 
has shown us over and over, in the fight for survival... there are no rules.

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
[the Doctor is driving crazily through San Francisco, with Grace clinging 
desperately to his back] 
 — Grace: Doctor! 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes? 
 — Grace: I only have one life! Can you remember that? 
 — Eighth Doctor: [grinning happily] I'll try!

        — Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
[to the Master] "You want dominion over the living, yet all you do is kill."

        — The Eighth Doctor, Doctor Who: The TV Movie
%
"I am the man that gives monsters nightmares. The Daleks call me the Bringer of 
Darkness. I am the Eighth Man Bound. I am the Champion of Life and Time. I'm 
the guy with two hearts. I make History better. I am the Doctor."

        — The Eighth Doctor, The Dying Days
%
"Injustice is the rule, but I want justice. Suffering is the rule, but I want 
to end it. Despair accords with reality, but I insist on hope. I don't accept 
it because it is unacceptable."

        — The Eighth Doctor, Camera Obscura
%
"Breathe in deep, lieutenant. You too, Charley. Do you feel that pounding in 
your heart? That tightness in the pit of your stomach? The blood rushing to 
your head? Do you know what that is? That's adventure! The thrill and the fear 
and the joy of stepping into the unknown. That's why we're all here, and that's 
why we're alive!"

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Storm Warning"
%
 — Eighth Doctor: Oh, you're right. It is very dark. Oh, how exciting! I do 
love the dark, don't you? 
 — Charley: Well... within reason, but I think you can have too much of a 
good thing. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Oh, it all just enhances the mystery, the sheer 
anticipation of not yet having a clue where we are. 
 — Charley: You really haven't got a clue? 
 — Eighth Doctor: The console isn't telling me anything at all, just a blank 
read-out. 
 — Charley: Well, that sounds ominous. 
 — Eighth Doctor: No, not at all. I've been too methodical recently, I think. 
Setting coordinates and things, actually deciding where we want to go. I've 
been getting far too safe and predictable these last few incarnations. Do you 
know I once travelled for centuries without ever knowing where I'd materialize 
next? 
 — Charley: (chuckles) Yes, I can believe that!

        — "The Chimes of Midnight"
%
"Oh, Charley. Without you I would just be a lonely old man rattling around in 
my TARDIS with no one to talk to. My life going round and round. My life going 
round in circles."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "The Chimes of Midnight"
%
"'Doctor who'? My enemies never ask me that. Isn't that terrible, that they 
know me better than my friends?"

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Seasons of Fear"
%
 — Eight Doctor: It's one of the most wonderful things about Lady Time, isn't 
it? How nothing's constant, how everything decays and changes? 
 — Charley: You call that wonderful? 
 — Eight Doctor: I call it absolutely beautiful! How would it be if 
everything was always the same? If you never got too big for your dresses, if 
you never got to pass them on to your sister? If the rainy autumn lasted 
forever and the spring never came? At least I change. I'm stumbling my way 
through bodies like I own a particularly dangerous bicycle. Grayle never 
changes, not inside, not who he is. So time piles on top of him and kills 
everything good. No one should have to go through that.

        — "Seasons of Fear"
%
"Sorry, I was soliloquising again. Filthy habit."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Seasons of Fear"
%
"Never put off today what you can put off tomorrow, I say!"

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Neverland"
%
 — Eighth Doctor: You will have realized, of course, that you're not the only 
human who has travelled with me in the TARDIS. 
 — Charley: Yes, well, I hardly expected to be your first. 
 — Eighth Doctor: The Time Lords have often wondered why I bothered. After 
all, we are capable of living for thousands of years; you can barely reach a 
hundred. And they came up with a theory. Do you want to know what it is? 
 — Charley: You need friendship? Companionship? You must get lonely, 
travelling the universe with no one to share it with. 
 — Eighth Doctor: They thought you were all memento mori. 
 — Charley: What? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Reminders of death. Quite common things really. On Medieval 
Earth, courtiers would often keep skulls on their mantelpiece. They were very 
much the "in" thing. No matter how powerful you were, death was inevitable. You 
still had to remember your mortality. And Time Lords need to remember all the 
more. I denied that was the reason of course, and as you said, friendship, 
companionship. But over the years, over my many lifetimes, as my friends all 
left me one by one, I began to wonder that they really might have had a point 
after all.

        — "Scherzo"
%
 — Eighth Doctor: Buddhism is a relatively simple philosophy, C'rizz. Like 
children, we're here to learn. If we learn well during our life we're rewarded 
with nirvana. If not, we're reborn in a new body to try to accomplish what we 
failed to learn the first time 'round. Easy as falling off a log. 
 — Charley: And how many bodies have you had, now? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Yes, well... That's beside the point, Charley.

        — "The Natural History of Fear"
%
"I may talk like a fool, but I always know what I'm talking like a fool about!"

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Caerdroia"
%
 — Guidance: Every young buck who wants to prove his manhood is eager to 
blood his face in your entrails. 
 — Eighth Doctor: That's teenagers for you. Of course I was a terror 'til 
120. 
 — Guidance: One hundred and...? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Late-developer.

        — "The Next Life"
%
"Never turn down tea if it's offered. It's impolite, and that's how wars start."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Memory Lane"
%
"Revenge is a dish best left to go cold and then thrown in the kitchen bin. 
Trust a Doctor: Prevention is better than cure."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Memory Lane"
%
 — Charley: Yes, but what was that?! 
 — Eighth Doctor: I shall just find out by using my super Time Lord powers 
of... looking out of the window.

        — "Memory Lane"
%
"So it was your plan to kill us all, then. That's good. That's very, very good, 
because I'd hate to think that you'd done something so monumentally brainless 
by accident!"

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Blood Of The Daleks"
%
"Was that supposed to frighten me, Farl? I've seen entire species destroyed; 
civilisations left in ruins. I've witnessed solar systems vanish in the 
twinkling of an eye. I've seen things that would freeze your blood. So don't 
threaten me. Don't ever threaten me."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "Phobos"
%
 — Lucie: What are you doing? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Shredding. 
 — Lucie: What are you shredding? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Everything I can find. 
 — Lucie: Why? 
 — Eighth Doctor: I'm hoping it might annoy somebody.

        — "Human Resources"
%
 — Lucie: Do you... I mean, do you still think about Orbis? Your life back 
there? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Well... Why do you ask? 
 — Lucie: Sometimes I look at you and you look, well, sad. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Lucie, there's a lot of darkness out there. Some of it 
where Orbis used to be. But you know something? We wouldn't notice any of it if 
it weren’t for all those little pinpricks of light. Planets and stars. And 
that's where I go whenever I feel sad. The next bit of light in the darkness, 
keep on moving. Never look back... Well, hardly ever.

        — "The Scapegoat"
%
"Nothing that gives people hope, courage, and strength, is stupid."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "The Cannibalists"
%
 — Lucie: Doctor, why didn't you press that button? I mean, one life to save 
millions? It makes sense. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Because... I used to be that guy. 
 — Lucie: You mean, you're the Monk?! He was you all along? 
 — Eighth Doctor: No, but not far off. I was once a man with a masterplan. 
I'd seek out injustices, topple governments, all in the name of the greater 
good. I'd started doing the maths, you see... 
 — Lucie: The maths? 
 — Eighth Doctor: This is how evil starts, with the belief that the ends 
justify the means. But once you start down that road, there's no turning back. 
What if you can save a million lives, but you have to let ten people die, or a 
hundred, or a hundred thousand? Where do you stop? 
 — Lucie: But you did. You did stop. 
 — Eighth Doctor: I did. But by then I'd ended up travelling alone, because I 
couldn't trust myself with anyone's life. Well, not after... 
 — Lucie: Not after...? ...Not saying? Okay. Then what was it that made you 
realize that it was time to change from lonely bean-counter to companionable 
time traveller? 
 — Eighth Doctor: A new body, a clean slate, a fresh start. From that day on, 
I knew that I never would again countenance the death of a single living being. 
That's why I no longer travel alone. 
 — Lucie: Why? 
 — Eighth Doctor: So I never can forget how precious a single life is.

        — The Eighth Doctor on the Seventh Doctor, "The Resurrection Of Mars"
%
 — The Master: You're... You're really sanguine, Doctor, given the terminal 
nature of our predicament. 
 — Eighth Doctor: We're stuck. In here. Together. Frankly, if I'm going to 
die on an exploding spaceship, I can't think of anyone else I'd rather have die 
with me. 
 — The Master: You're willing to sacrifice your life?! What, to get rid of 
me? 
 — Eighth Doctor: With you gone, my friends — and the fate of the Universe 
— are safe. The Time Lords can clear up the mess. Besides; I'm enjoying 
watching you squirm. How should we pass the time? ...I know! Tell me about your 
mother... 
 — The Master: (annoyed sigh) You've tried psychoanalysing me before, Doctor! 
Why bother? How can you fathom the unfathomable? 
 — Eighth Doctor: On the contrary: You're actually pretty transparent. You're 
a spoiled child. You have to get what you want. Or everyone suffers. Trouble 
is, you don't know what you want, beyond killing me. What are you "Master" of, 
precisely? 
 — The Master: The title you chose: "Doctor". Now, it's not just "a man of 
healing", it means "teacher", it means "tutor". Where as I am the "Master". We 
both want to change the Universe to make it "better", it's only the scale of 
our ambitions that separates us. 
 — Eighth Doctor: What are you saying? You'd like to be a doctor, but you 
didn't have the patience? 
 — The Master: (laughs heartily) Oh, how have I resisted killing you until 
now? 
 — Eighth Doctor: You tell me. You'd rather see me humiliated. Actually, the 
simple answer is — you don't want to. You need me around. To give you the 
attention you so desperately crave. Ever since we were at the Academy together, 
all those centuries ago. 
 — The Master: Oh, I never think of the past. The future is my sole concern. 
I thought you were the same, never looking back. Only, in your case, it's 
because you're afraid to face the death and destruction you leave in your wake. 
 — Eighth Doctor: Whereas you delight in it.

        — "Masterplan"
%
 — Gallifreyan Recruit: Are you... him? 
 — Eighth Doctor: I'm certainly a him. For the moment, anyway.

        — "The Conscript"
%
 — Eighth Doctor: I've stayed away because I don't know where to begin. I 
don't know the answer to a Time War! 
 — Commandant Harlan: What? You've stopped trying to find one? 
 — Eighth Doctor: No, but I'm sure it's not to keep sending millions to die! 
To escalate an arms race where both sides have unfettered access to all time 
and space. I've seen worlds destroyed, civilizations choked in their cradles, 
whole races fleeing in terror. I've seen centuries of art, of science, wiped 
out in an instant. I just saw a beautiful rainforest burn along with every 
creature in it. I didn't even know the planet's name. If you're prepared to 
accept that much collateral damage to the rest of the universe, then what 
exactly are you fighting for?! I'll protect those with no choice in the matter, 
no voice. 
 — Commandant Harlan: Noble sentiments, but that's all they are. You avoid 
the issue while the rest of us have to make a stand. We are the ones in the 
right. Gallifrey must prevail. At any cost. 
 — Eighth Doctor: That is what terrifies me. That certainty. You start 
believing only in absolutes. Well, isn't that exactly who you're fighting?

        — "The Conscript"
%
 — Cass: Where are we going? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Back of the ship. 
 — Cass: Why? 
 — Eighth Doctor: Because the front crashes first. Think it through!

        — "The Night of the Doctor"
%
"I don't suppose there's any need of a Doctor any more. Make me a Warrior now."

        — The Eighth Doctor, "The Night of the Doctor"
%
"Charlie, C'rizz, Lucie, Tamsin, Molly... friends, companions I've known, I 
salute you. Cass...I apologize. Physician, heal thyself!"

        — The Eighth Doctor's last words from "The Night of the Doctor", 
making all of the Big Finish audio adventures canon in one fell swoop.
%
