 — "Do you wanna come with me? 'Cause if you do, then I should warn you, 
you're gonna see all sorts of things. Ghosts from the past. Aliens from the 
future. The day the Earth died in a ball of flame. It won't be quiet, it won't 
be safe, and it won't be calm. But I'll tell you what it will be: the trip of a 
lifetime."

        — The Ninth Doctor, 2005 trailers
%
 — "Run."

        — The Ninth Doctor's first word to Rose Tyler, "Rose"
%
 — Rose Tyler: Is it always this dangerous? 
 — Ninth Doctor: [eyes light up] Yeah!

        — "Rose"
%
 — "I can feel it. The turn of the Earth. The ground beneath our feet is 
spinning at 1,000 miles an hour, and the entire planet is hurtling around the 
Sun at 67,000 miles an hour and I can feel it. We're falling through space, you 
and me, clinging to the skin of this tiny little world, and if we let go... 
That's who I am."

        — The Ninth Doctor, "Rose"
%
 — "The assembled hordes of Genghis Khan couldn't get through those doors. 
And believe me, they've tried."

        — The Ninth Doctor on the sturdiness of the TARDIS, "Rose"
%
 — "Everything has its time and everything dies."

        — The Ninth Doctor, "The End of the World"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: [on the Gelth] Did it say anything? Can it speak? I'm the 
Doctor, by the way. 
 — Charles Dickens: Doctor? You look more like a navvy. 
 — Ninth Doctor: What's wrong with this jumper? note jumper means sweatshirt 
in British English

        — "The Unquiet Dead"
%
 — Dalek: I am waiting for orders. 
 — Ninth Doctor: What does that mean? 
 — Dalek: I am a soldier. I was bred to receive orders. 
 — Ninth Doctor: Well, you're never gonna get any. Not ever. 
 — Dalek: I demand orders! 
 — Ninth Doctor: They're never gonna come! Your race is dead! You all burned, 
all of you! Ten million ships on fire: the entire Dalek race wiped out in one 
second! 
 — Dalek: You lie! 
 — Ninth Doctor: I watched it happen! I made it happen! 
 — Dalek: You destroyed us? 
 — Ninth Doctor: ...I had no choice. 
 — Dalek: And what of the Time Lords? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Dead. They burned with you. The end of the Last Great Time 
War... everyone lost.

        — "Dalek"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: Don't you see it's all gone? Everything you were, everything 
you stood for. 
 — Dalek: ...Then what should I do? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Alright then. If you want orders, follow this one. Kill 
yourself. 
 — Dalek: The Daleks must survive! 
 — Ninth Doctor: The Daleks have failed! Why don't you finish the job, and 
make the Daleks extinct? Rid the universe of your filth! Why don't you just 
DIE! 
[beat] 
 — Dalek: ...You would make a good Dalek. 
[the Doctor looks horrified]

        — "Dalek"
%
 — "The thing is, Adam, time travel is like visiting Paris. You can't just 
read the guidebook, you've gotta throw yourself in. Eat the food, use the wrong 
verbs, get charged double and end up kissing complete strangers — or is that 
just me?"

        — The Ninth Doctor, "The Long Game"
%
 — "Who said you're not important? I've travelled to all sorts of places, 
done things you couldn't even imagine. But you two? Street corner, two in the 
morning, getting a taxi home. I've never had a life like that."

        — The Ninth Doctor to a married couple, "Father's Day"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: Sonic blaster, 51st Century... weapon factories at 
Villengard? 
 — Captain Jack Harkness: Yeah. You've been to the factories? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Once. 
 — Captain Jack: They're gone now, destroyed. Main reactor went critical, 
vaporised the lot. 
 — Ninth Doctor: Like I said, once. There's a banana grove there now. I like 
bananas. Bananas are good.

        — "The Doctor Dances"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: Dr. Constantine, never left his patients. Back on your feet, 
constant doctor. The world doesn't want to get by without you just yet, and I 
don't blame it one bit. These are your patients, all better now. 
 — Dr. Constantine: Yes, yes, so it seems. They also seem to be standing 
around in a disused railway station. Is there any particular reason for that? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Yeah well, y'know... cutbacks.

        — "The Doctor Dances"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: History says there was an explosion, who am I to argue with 
history? 
 — Rose: Usually the first in line.

        — "The Doctor Dances"
%
 — "Everybody Lives, Rose! Just this once, everybody lives!"

        — The Ninth Doctor, "The Doctor Dances"
%
 — Dalek: Alert! Alert! We are detected! 
 — Dalek: It is the Doctor! He has located us! Open communications channel! 
 — Dalek: The female will stand! Stand! 
[the communications channel opens] 
 — Dalek: I will talk to the Doctor! 
 — Ninth Doctor: Oh, will you? That's nice. Hello! 
 — Dalek: The Dalek stratagem nears completion. The fleet is almost ready. 
You will not intervene. 
 — Ninth Doctor: Oh, really? Why's that then? 
 — Dalek: We have your associate! You will obey or she will be exterminated! 
 — Ninth Doctor: ... No. 
[everyone present, Daleks included, turn and stare at the Doctor] 
 — Dalek: Explain yourself! 
 — Ninth Doctor: I said no. 
 — Dalek: What is the meaning of this negative!? 
 — Ninth Doctor: It means "No". 
 — Dalek: But. She. Will. Be. Destroyed! 
 — Ninth Doctor: NO! 'Cause this is what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna rescue her! 
I'm gonna save Rose Tyler from the middle of the Dalek fleet! Then I'm gonna 
save the Earth! Then, just to finish off, I'm gonna wipe every last stinking 
Dalek out of the sky! 
 — Dalek: But you have no weapons! No defences! No plan! 
 — Ninth Doctor: Yeah. And doesn't that scare you to death? ...Rose? 
 — Rose: Yes, Doctor? 
 — Ninth Doctor: I'm coming to get you.

        — "Bad Wolf"
%
 — "You know what they call me in the ancient legends of the Dalek homeworld? 
The Oncoming Storm. You might have removed all your emotions, but I reckon 
right down deep in your DNA there's one little spark left. And that's fear. 
Doesn't it just burn when you face me?"

        — The Ninth Doctor, "The Parting of the Ways"
%
 — Dalek Emperor: I am immortal. 
 — Ninth Doctor: Do you wanna put that to the test? 
 — Dalek Emperor: I want to see you become like me. HAIL THE DOCTOR, THE 
GREAT EXTERMINATOR! 
 — Ninth Doctor: [grabs Delta Wave switch] I'LL DO IT! 
 — Dalek Emperor: Then prove yourself, Doctor. What are you, coward, or 
killer? 
 — Ninth Doctor: [he hesitates, then lets go of the switch] Coward. Any day.

        — "The Parting of the Ways"
%
 — Ninth Doctor: Rose Tyler, I was going to take you to so many places. 
Barcelona! Not the city Barcelona, the planet Barcelona. You'd love it, 
fantastic place. They've got dogs with no noses! [laughs] Imagine how many 
times a day you end up telling that joke and it's still funny! 
 — Rose: Then, why can't we go? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Maybe you will. Maybe I will. But not like this. 
 — Rose: You're not making sense. 
 — Ninth Doctor: I might never make sense again! I might have two heads, or 
no head. Imagine me with no head, ha! And don't say that's an improvement... 
But it's a bit dodgy, this process. You never know what you're going to end up 
with. [spasms in plain as he clutches his stomach] 
 — Rose: Doctor! 
 — Ninth Doctor: Stay away! 
 — Rose: Doctor, tell me what's going on– 
 — Ninth Doctor: I absorbed all the energy of the Time Vortex, and no one's 
meant to do that... Every cell in my body's dying. 
 — Rose: Isn't there something you can do? 
 — Ninth Doctor: Yeah. Doing it now. See, Time Lords have this little trick, 
it's sort of a way of cheating death. Except... it means I'm going to change. 
And you're not going to see me again. Not like this. Not with this daft old 
face. And before I go– 
 — Rose: Don't say that! 
 — Ninth Doctor: Rose... before I go, I just want to tell you: you were 
fantastic. [smiles reassuringly] Absolutely fantastic. And do you know what? 
[grins widely] So was I! 
[the Ninth Doctor regenerates] 
 — Tenth Doctor: Hello! Okay ...New teeth. That's weird. So where was I? Oh, 
that's right — Barcelona!

        — The regeneration of the Ninth Doctor begins, "The Parting of the 
Ways"
%
 — "Allons-y!"

        — The Tenth Doctor; numerous times
%
 — "No second chances. I'm that sort of a man."

        — The Tenth Doctor, after sending the Sycorax leader to his doom 
using a satsuma, "The Christmas Invasion"
%
 — "By the ancient rites of combat, I forbid you to scavenge here for the 
rest of time. And when you go back to the stars and tell others of this planet, 
when you tell them of its riches, its people, its potential, when you talk of 
the Earth, then make sure that you tell them this... it is defended!"

        — The Tenth Doctor to the Sycorax, "The Christmas Invasion"
%
 — "I'm sorry, I am so, so, sorry."

        — The Tenth Doctor, every other Series 2 episode
%
 — Tenth Doctor: If I don't like it [the Krilitanes' plan], then it will 
stop. 
 — Mr. Finch/Brother Lassar: Fascinating. Your people were peaceful to the 
point of indolence. You seem to be something new. Would you declare war on us, 
Doctor? 
 — Tenth Doctor: I'm so old now. I used to have so much mercy. You get one 
warning. That was it.

        — "School Reunion"
%
 — Sarah Jane Smith: Goodbye, Doctor. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Oh, it's not goodbye... 
 — Sarah Jane Smith: No, say it. This time, say it. 
[beat] 
 — Tenth Doctor: Goodbye... my Sarah Jane!! [picks her up off the ground and 
hugs the living daylights out of her]

        — Sarah Jane rights a wrong three decades old, "School Reunion"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Must be a spatio-temporal hyperlink. 
 — Mickey Smith: What's that? 
 — Tenth Doctor: No idea, just made it up. Didn't want to say "magic door".

        — The Tenth Doctor channelling the Cat from Red Dwarf, "The Girl in 
the Fireplace"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Even monsters under the bed have nightmares. 
 — Young Reinette: What do monsters have nightmares about? 
 — Tenth Doctor: ME!

        — "The Girl in the Fireplace"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Madame de Pompadour! You look younger every day. 
 — King Louis: What the hell is going on? 
 — Madame de Pompadour: Oh. This is my lover, the King of France. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Yeah? Well, I'm the Lord of Time.

        — "The Girl in the Fireplace"
%
 — John Lumic/Cyber-Controller: Tell me, Doctor, have you felt pain, and 
rage, and anguish? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Oh, yes. 
 — Cyber-Controller: What if I could set you free? Wouldn't you want that, a 
life without pain? 
 — Tenth Doctor: I'd rather die. 
 — Cyber-Controller: Then I take that option! 
 — Tenth Doctor: But it's not yours to take!

        — "The Age of Steel"
%
 — Eddie Connolly: I. Am. TALKING! 
 — Tenth Doctor: And I'm not LISTENING! Now, you, Mr. Connolly, you are 
staring into a deep, dark pit of trouble if you don't let me help. So I'm 
ordering you, sir, tell me what's going on!

        — "The Idiot's Lantern"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Men in black? Vanishing police cars? This is Churchill's 
England, not Stalin's Russia! 
 — Rose: Monsters, that boy said... Maybe we should go and ask the 
neighbours. 
 — Tenth Doctor: That's what I like about you: the domestic approach. 
 — Rose: Thank you.... hold on, was that an insult?

        — "The Idiot's Lantern"
%
 — "But I've seen a lot of this universe. I've seen fake gods, bad gods, 
demigods, would-be gods, and out of all that, out of that whole pantheon, if I 
believe in one thing, just one thing, I believe in her!"

        — The Tenth Doctor, on Rose Tyler, "The Satan Pit"
%
 — Ida Scott: Hang on though, Doctor. You never really said... you two, who 
are you? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Oh... [glancing at Rose] the stuff of legend.

        — "The Satan Pit"
%
 — Rose: Doctor, they've got guns. 
 — Tenth Doctor: And I haven't. Which makes me the better person, don't you 
think? They can shoot me dead, but the moral high ground is mine.

        — "Army of Ghosts"
%
 — Martha: You're completely mad! 
 — Tenth Doctor: You're right, I look daft in one shoe...

        — "Smith and Jones"
%
 — "Crossing into established events is strictly forbidden... except for 
cheap tricks."

        — The Tenth Doctor, "Smith and Jones"
%
 — Martha: Blimey, do you have to take a test to fly this thing? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Yes, and I failed.

        — Martha Jones on the TARDIS, "The Shakespeare Code"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Good mistress, this poor fellow has died from a sudden 
imbalance of the humours. A natural, if unfortunate demise. Call a constable, 
have him taken away. 
 — Dolly: Yes, sir. 
 — Lilith: I'll do it ma'am. 
 — Martha: And why are you telling them that? 
 — Tenth Doctor: They've still got one foot in the dark ages. If I tell them 
the truth, they'll panic and think it was witchcraft. 
 — Martha: OK, what was it then? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Witchcraft.

        — "The Shakespeare Code"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Ohh, how to explain the mechanics of the infinite temporal 
flux? I know, Back to the Future. It's like Back to the Future. 
 — Martha: The film? 
 — Tenth Doctor: No, the novelisation. Yes, the film!

        — "The Shakespeare Code"
%
 — Queen Elizabeth I: The Doctor! 
 — Tenth Doctor: What? 
 — Queen Elizabeth I: My sworn enemy! 
 — Tenth Doctor: What?! 
 — Queen Elizabeth I: Off with his head! 
 — Tenth Doctor: WHAT?!! 
 — Martha: Never mind what, just run! 
 — Queen Elizabeth I: Stop him! 
 — Martha: See you, Will. And thanks! 
 — Queen Elizabeth I: Stop that pernicious Doctor! 
 — Guard: Stop, in the name of the queen! 
 — Martha: What have you done to upset her? 
 — Tenth Doctor: How should I know, I haven't met her yet! That's time travel 
for you. Still, can't wait to find out, that's something to look forward to...

        — "The Shakespeare Code"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: People don't understand time. 
 — Sally Sparrow: Then tell me. 
 — Tenth Doctor: It's complicated. 
 — Sally Sparrow: How complicated? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Very complicated. 
 — Sally Sparrow: I'm clever, and people have died. 
 — Tenth Doctor: People assume that time is a strict progression of cause to 
effect, but actually, from a non-linear, non-subjective view, it's more like a 
big ball of... wibbley-wobbley... timey-wimey... stuff. 
 — Sally Sparrow: Started well, that sentence. 
 — Tenth Doctor: It... got away from me, yeah.

        — "Blink"
%
"And that's it, I'm afraid. There's no more from you on the transcript, that's 
the last I've got. I don't know what stopped you talking but I can guess. 
They're coming. The Angels are coming for you, but listen: your life could 
depend on this. Don't blink. Don't even blink. Blink and you're dead. They are 
fast, faster than you could believe. Don't turn your back, don't look away, and 
don't blink. Good luck."

        — The Tenth Doctor, "Blink"
%
 — The Master: Doctor. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Master. 
 — The Master: I like it when you use my name. 
 — Tenth Doctor: You chose it. Psychiatrist's field day. 
 — The Master: As you chose yours. The man who makes people better. How 
sanctimonious is that?

        — "The Sound of Drums"
%
 — "Look at you! The hat, the coat, the crickety-cricket stuff, the... 
[unenthusiastically] stick of celery, yeah... brave choice, celery, but fair 
play to you, not a lot of men can carry off a decorative vegetable."

        — The Tenth Doctor to the Fifth Doctor, "Time Crash"
%
"Hey, I'm the Doctor! I can save the universe with a kettle and some string! 
And look at me, I'm wearing a vegetable."

        — The Tenth Doctor mimicking the Fifth Doctor, "Time Crash"
%
"I'm the Doctor. I'm a Time Lord. I'm from the planet Gallifrey in the 
constellation of Kasterborous. I'm 903 years old, and I'm the man who's gonna 
save your lives and all six billion people on the planet below. You got a 
problem with that?"

        — The Tenth Doctor, "Voyage of the Damned"
%
"Astrid Peth, citizen of Sto, the woman who looked at the stars and dreamt of 
travelling... there is an old tradition... Now you can travel forever... You're 
not falling, Astrid; you're flying."

        — The Tenth Doctor scattering Astrid's atoms across the universe, 
"Voyage of the Damned"
%
"Health and safety... film department."

        — The Tenth Doctor, spying through a projection room, "Partners in 
Crime"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: Hold on, hold on, hold on, one more thing, before... dying. 
Do you know what happens if you hold two identical sonic devices against each 
other? 
 — Miss Foster: ...No. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Nor me. Let's find out!

        — "Partners in Crime"
%
 — "You need to get yourself a better dictionary. When you do, look up 
genocide. You'll see a little picture of me there, and the caption'll read 
'OVER MY DEAD BODY!'"

        — The Tenth Doctor, doing his job, "The Doctor's Daughter"
%
 — "I never would. Have you got that? I. Never. Would. When you start this 
new world; this world of Human and Hath, remember that. Make the foundation of 
this society a man who never would."

        — The Tenth Doctor on taking revenge for the death of his daughter, 
"The Doctor's Daughter"
%
 — [The Doctor is poisoned, and makes muffled noises while making a shaking 
motion] 
 — Donna Noble: I can't understand you! How many words? 
[The Doctor holds up one finger] 
 — Donna: One! One word! Shake, milk-shake, milk! Milk! No? Not milk! Um, 
shake, shake, shake! Cocktail shake! What, d'you want a Harvey Wallbanger? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Harvey Wallbanger?! 
 — Donna: Well, I don't know! 
 — Tenth Doctor: How is Harvey Wallbanger one word?! 
 — Agatha Christie: What do you need, Doctor? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Salt! I was miming salt! I need salt! I need something 
salty! 
 — Donna: [Donna grabs a bag from the counter] What about this? 
 — Tenth Doctor: What is it? 
 — Donna: Salt! 
 — Tenth Doctor: That's too salty! 
 — Donna: Oh, that's too salty!

        — "The Unicorn and the Wasp"
%
 — Donna Noble: Use your thingy! 
 — Tenth Doctor: I can't! It's wood! 
 — Donna: What, it doesn't do wood?!

        — The Tenth Doctor and Donna Noble arguing over the sonic 
screwdriver, "Silence in the Library"
%
 — Tenth Doctor: You're not archaeologists, are you? Tell me you're not 
archaeologists. 
 — River Song: Do you have a problem with archaeologists? 
 — Tenth Doctor: I'm a time traveller. I point and laugh at archaeologists. 
 — River Song: Ahh. [grins and holds out her hand] Professor River Song, 
archaeologist.

        — "Silence in the Library"
%
 — Vashta Nerada: These are our forests. They are our meat. 
[the shadows grow] 
 — Tenth Doctor: Don't play games with me. You just killed someone I liked, 
that is not a safe place to stand. I'm the Doctor and you're in the biggest 
library in the Universe. Look me up. 
[beat] 
[the shadows recoil]

        — "Forest of the Dead"
%
 — Donna Noble: You alright? 
 — Tenth Doctor: I'm always alright. 
 — Donna Noble: Is "alright" special Time Lord code for "really not alright 
at all"? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Why? 
 — Donna Noble: 'Cause I'm alright too.

        — "Forest of the Dead"
%
 — Shadow Architect: By the articles of the Shadow Proclamation, I must seize 
your vehicle and technology! 
 — Tenth Doctor: What? Why? 
 — Shadow Architect: Planets have ben stolen with hostile intent. We are 
declaring war, Doctor, right across the universe, and you will lead us into 
battle! 
 — Tenth Doctor: ... right. I'll just... get you the key. 
[he steps back into the TARDIS, and it starts dematerialising]

        — "The Stolen Earth"
%
 — General Brudge: You don't have the courage to bear arms, Doctor. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Oh, there are lots of other things I'll bear, and bravely, 
too. I'll bear witness; I'll bear the blame! Bear ridicule, bear fruit, 
Goldilocks and the Three Bears. I can bear a burden, bear inspection; I can 
bear pain; I can grin and bear it. I may be a bearer of little brain, General, 
but what you should bear in mind that I don't care to — and don't need to — 
bear. Arms.

        — Pest Control (New Series Adventures audiobook)
%
 — Rani: I hope you're as good as Ms. Smith says you are. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Well, you know, reporters, they tend to exaggerate, but, 
yeah, I'm pretty amazing on a good day.

        — The Sarah Jane Adventures, "The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith"
%
 — Malcolm Taylor: I've wired up an integrator. I thought it could measure 
the energy signature. 
 — Tenth Doctor: No no no that'll never work... 
 — Malcolm Taylor:: It's extraordinary though... I'm measuring an oscillation 
of 15 malcolms per second! 
 — Tenth Doctor: Fifteen what? 
 — Malcolm Taylor: 15 malcolms — it's my own little term; a wavelength 
particle operating in 4 dimensions equals 1 malcolm. 
 — Tenth Doctor: You named a unit of measurement after yourself. 
 — Malcolm Taylor: Well it didn't do Mr Watt any harm. Furthermore, 50 
malcolms equals 1 bernard. 
 — Tenth Doctor: And who's that, your dad? 
 — Malcolm Taylor: Don't be silly... that's Quatermass. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Right... But– um– before I die of old age, which in my 
case would be quite an achievement so congratulations on that, is there anyone 
else I could talk to?

        — "Planet of the Dead"
%
 — Adelaide Brooke: State your name, rank and intention. 
 — Tenth Doctor: The Doctor, doctor... fun.

        — "The Waters of Mars"
%
 — "It's not like I'm an innocent. I've taken lives. And I got worse; I got 
clever. Manipulated people into taking their own. Sometimes I think a Time Lord 
lives too long."

        — The Tenth Doctor realizes just how far he's gone, courtesy of "The 
End of Time"
%
 — "I don't want to go."

        — The Tenth Doctor, on the verge of regeneration, "The End of Time"
%
 — Donna: What do you think? 
 — Tenth Doctor: I told you, we are not going to that "Planet of the Boys"! 
There is no Planet of the Boys! 
 — Donna: There's a million, trillion planets out there. Somewhere there is a 
planet of the boys. Just dancin' about in their pants. Stands to reason. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Yeah, well, I'm not sure that they worship wenches. 
 — Donna: They will when they see me in this.

        — "Time Reaver"
%
 — Donna: Do you secretly just like this place because it makes you think the 
TARDIS is the most brilliant of all the ships? 
 — Tenth Doctor: Oh, I wouldn't... pshh... heh... weeellll... 
 — Donna: HA! You do!

        — "Time Reaver"
%
 — Rose: I don't believe you sometimes. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Well, yeah, I'm used to that. Most people don't believe me 
any of the time, which is funny really. I have such an honest face. Look. 
Heeeee! 
 — Rose: You know what I'm talkin' about. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Well, how was I supposed to know you use the place for 
weddings? I mean, who wants to get married at the bottom of a gorge? Bridal 
gown, all those steps... I bet maid of honour is a prison sentence on 
Beltraxin. They must have started the procession a week ago. Unless they took 
the quick way down like we did, I suppose. 
 — Rose: Nobody bungee jumps to their wedding, Doctor. Nobody. The... [tries 
to control laughter] the priest fainted. 
 — Tenth Doctor: Did he? Ah, well, it's probably just a coincidence. 
 — Rose: No, it was definitely the screaming idiots gatecrashing the wedding 
headfirst. 
 — Tenth Doctor: I caught the bouquet! 
 — Rose: In your teeth! 
 — Tenth Doctor: Weeell, you know me. Never one to show off.

        — "The Sword of the Chevalier"
%
 — "And still not ginger!"

        — One of the first things the Eleventh Doctor says after 
regenerating, "The End of Time"
%
 — "GERONIMO!"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The End of Time"
%
 — "Trust me. I'm the Doctor."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — Amy Pond: I thought, like, well I started to think that maybe you were 
just a mad man with a box. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Amy Pond, there's something you'd better understand about 
me because it's important and one day your life may depend on it. I am 
definitely a mad man with a box!

        — "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — Amy Pond: I grew up. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Don't worry. I'll soon fix that.

        — "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — Amy Pond: You're worse than my aunt! 
 — Eleventh Doctor: I'm the Doctor, I'm worse than everybody's aunt! [beat] 
And that is not how I'm introducing myself.

        — "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: [to Amy and Rory] Leaving is good. Never coming back is 
better. [to Atraxi] C'MOOOOONNN, then! The Doctor will see you now! 
[the Atraxi scan the Doctor] 
 — Atraxi: You are not of this world. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No, but I've put a lot of work into it. [compares a few 
ties] I dunno. What do you think? 
 — Atraxi: Is this world important? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Important? What's that mean, important? Six billion 
people live here. Is that important? Here's a better question. Is this world a 
threat to the Atraxi? Well c'mon, you're monitoring the whole planet. Is this 
world a threat? 
[the Atraxi scan the history of the Earth] 
 — Atraxi: No. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Are the peoples of this world guilty of any crimes, by 
the laws of the Atraxi? 
 — Atraxi: No. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Okay! One more, just one. Is this world protected? 
Because you're not the first lot to have come here, oh, there have been so 
many. And what you've got to ask is, [softly] what happened to them? 
[The Atraxi's scanning shows images of all of the Doctor's nemeses, followed by 
images of all ten previous incarnations of the Doctor, before the Eleventh 
Doctor steps through the hologram] 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Hello. I'm the Doctor. Basically... run.

        — "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — "All of time and space, everything that ever happened, or ever will. Where 
do you want to start?"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Eleventh Hour"
%
 — "Bowties are cool."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, often
%
 — Amy: You look human. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No, you look Time Lord. We came first. 
 — Amy: So there are other Time Lords, yeah? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: [face adopts a pained expression] ...No, there were but 
there aren't... just me now. Long story. It was a bad day, lots of bad stuff 
happened, and you know what? I'd love to forget it all, every last bit of it, 
but I don't. Not ever. 'Cause this is what I do; every time, every day, every 
second. This! Hold tight. [big grin] We're bringing down the government.

        — "The Beast Below"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: What does "hate" look like, Amy? 
 — Amy: Hate? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: It looks like a Dalek.

        — "Victory of the Daleks"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: YOU! ARE! MY! ENEMY! And I am yours! You are everything I 
despise. The worst thing in all of creation. I've defeated you, time and time 
again I've defeated you. I sent you back into the void. I saved the whole of 
reality from you. I am the Doctor and you are the Daleks! 
 — Dalek: Correct!

        — "Victory of the Daleks"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: The writing, the graffiti [on the home box]: Old High 
Gallifreyan, the lost language of the Time Lords. There were days, there were 
many days, that these words could burn stars, and raise up empires, and topple 
gods. 
 — Amy: What does this say? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: ..."Hello, sweetie."

        — "The Time of Angels"
%
 — Father Octavian: There are six billion human colonists [on this planet]. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: You lot, you're everywhere, you're like rabbits! [grins 
like a kid on Christmas morning] I'll never get done saving you.

        — "The Time of Angels"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: There's one thing you never put in a trap. If you're 
smart, if you value your continued existence, if you have any plans about 
seeing tomorrow there's one thing you never ever put in a trap. 
 — Angel Bob: And what would that be, sir? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Me.

        — The Eleventh Doctor to an entire army of Weeping Angels, "The Time 
of Angels"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: Amy, you've got to start trusting me. It's never been 
more important. 
 — Amy: But you don't always tell me the truth. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: If I always told you the truth, I wouldn't need you to 
trust me.

        — "Flesh and Stone" and "The Big Bang"
%
 — Amy: Sorry, did I do something wrong? 'Cause I'm getting kind of mixed 
signals here. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Mixed signals? How? 
 — Amy: Oh, come on. You turn up in the middle of the night, you get me out 
of my bed in my nightie, which you then don't let me change out of for ages, 
and take me for a spin in your time machine. No, no, you're right. No mixed 
signals there. That is just a signal. Like a great big bat signal in the sky! 
Get your coat, love! The Doctor is in. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: [wistfully] Yeah... [realizes what she's implying] No, 
no, no, no! It's... Not like that! That's not what I'm like! 
 — Amy: Then what are you like? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: I don't know; Gandalf. Like a space Gandalf. Like the 
little green one in Star Wars... [imitates lightsaber]

        — "Meanwhile in the TARDIS 2"
%
 — Amy: Then why am I here? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Because... Because I can't see it anymore... 
 — Amy: See what? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: I'm 907. After a while you just can't see it anymore. 
 — Amy: See what? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Everything. I look at a star and it's just a big ball of 
burning gas, and I know how it began, I know how it ends... and I was probably 
there both times. You know, after a while, everything is just stuff. That's the 
problem. You make all of space and time your backyard what do you have? A 
backyard. But you can see it. And when you see it, I see it.

        — "Meanwhile in the TARDIS 2"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: They're just friends. Chums, pals, mates, buddies... not 
mates, forget mates. 
 — Amy: And out of all those... friends, how many would you say, just out of 
curiosity, were girls? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Oh... some of them, I suppose. Must've been. 
 — Amy: Some? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: It's hard to tell; it's a grey area. 
 — Amy: Under half? Over half? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Probably... slightly... little bit over? 
 — Amy: Young? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Everyone's young compared to me. 
 — Amy: Hot? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No, no, no, no, no. None of them, not really. Not at 
all... probably not. Maybe one or two. I don't really notice. 
 — Amy: Well, this big old machine must have some kind of visual records? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Oh God — I mean no, and anyway, they're voice-locked. 
 — Amy: Voice-locked... so I would just have to say "show me all visual 
records of previous TARDIS inhabitants"? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No, no, no, no, I mean voice-locked. I would have to say 
"show me all visual records of previous TARDIS inhabitants". 
 — Amy: Awww... thank you. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No! No! No! No! No! 
 — Amy: [sees images of various companions] Haha! Ooh, Gandalf! ... Is that a 
leather bikini? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: [to the TARDIS] Thanks. Thanks, dear. Miss out the metal 
dog, why don't you?

        — "Meanwhile in the TARDIS 2"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: I can't see a thing. 
 — Rory: Just as well [pulls a out a pocket light] I brought this, then. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: [pulls out a massive fluorescent lamp] Ultra-violet 
portable sunlight. 
 — Rory: Yours is bigger than mine. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: ...Let's not go there.

        — "The Vampires of Venice", discussing some pre-matrimonial issues
%
 — "This ends today. I will tear down the House of Calvierri stone by stone. 
[...] And you know why? You didn't know Isabella's name. You didn't know 
Isabella's name."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Vampires of Venice"
%
 — "There's something that doesn't make sense. Let's go and poke it with a 
stick."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "Amy's Choice"
%
 — "The way I see it, every life is a pile of good things and bad things. The 
good things don't soften the bad things, but vice versa, the bad things don't 
necessarily spoil the good things or make them unimportant."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "Vincent and the Doctor"
%
 — "Less of a young professional — more of an ancient amateur..."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Lodger"
%
 — Craig: Has anyone ever told you you're a bit weird? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: They never really stop.

        — "The Lodger"
%
 — "People fall out of the world sometimes, but they always leave traces. 
Little things we can't quite account for. Faces in photographs, luggage, 
half-eaten meals, rings. Nothing is ever forgotten, not completely. And if 
something can be remembered, it can come back."

        — The Eleventh Doctor tries to get Amy to remember Rory, "The 
Pandorica Opens"
%
 — Rory: So why am I here? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Because you are. The Universe is big; it's vast and 
complicated and ridiculous and sometimes, very rarely, impossible things just 
happen and we call them miracles. 900 years, never seen one yet, but this'll do 
me.

        — "The Pandorica Opens"
%
 — "Now the question of the hour is, who's got the Pandorica? Answer — I 
do. Next question, who's coming to take it from me? [beat] Come on! Look at me: 
no plan, no backup, no weapons worth a damn. Oh, and something else I don't 
have: Anything! To! Lose! So if you're sitting up there in your silly little 
spaceships, with all your silly little guns, and you've got any plans on taking 
the Pandorica tonight, just remember who's standing in your way. Remember every 
black day I ever stopped you, and then, aaand then, do the smart thing! Let 
somebody else try first."

        — The Eleventh Doctor to an entire army of Doctor Who villains, "The 
Pandorica Opens"
%
 — "It's a fez, I wear a fez now. Fezzes are cool."

        — The Eleventh Doctor on his new hat, "The Big Bang"
%
 — "When you wake up, you'll have a mum and dad, and you won't even remember 
me. Well you'll remember me a little. I'll be a story in your head. That's 
okay. We're all stories in the end. Just make it a good one, eh? 'Cause it was, 
you know. It was the best. A daft old man who stole a magic box and ran away. 
Did I ever tell you that I stole it? Well, I borrowed it; I was always gonna 
take it back. Oh, that box. Amy, you'll dream about that box. It'll never leave 
you. Big and little at the same time. Brand new and ancient, and the bluest 
blue ever. And the times we had, eh? Woulda had. Never had. In your dreams, 
they'll still be there. The Doctor and Amy Pond, and the days that never came."

        — The Eleventh Doctor to Amelia, just before he's about to be erased 
from time, "The Big Bang"
%
 — "Christmas Eve on a rooftop, saw a chimney, my whole brain went 'What the 
hell!'"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, after dropping down through a chimney, "A 
Christmas Carol"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: Who's she? 
 — Kazran: Nobody important. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Nobody important. Blimey, that's amazing. D'you know, in 
900 years of time and space, I've never met anyone who wasn't important before.

        — "A Christmas Carol"
%
 — "I'm being extremely clever up here and there is no one to stand around 
looking impressed! What's the point of having you all?"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, a mite cross with his companions' secret 
meeting, "The Impossible Astronaut"
%
 — "I'm going to need a SWAT team ready to mobilise, street maps covering all 
of Florida, a pot of coffee, twelve Jammy Dodgers and a fez!"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, having just barged into the Oval Office with 
guns pointed at him and a solution to President Nixon's mystery caller, "The 
Impossible Astronaut"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor" ... Dr. Song, you've got that face on again. 
 — River Song: What face? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: The "he's hot when he's clever" face. 
 — River Song: This is my normal face. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Yes it is.

        — "The Impossible Astronaut"
%
"You just raised an army against yourself! And now, for a thousand generations, 
you're going to be ordering them to destroy you every day. How fast can you 
run? Because today's the day the human race threw you off their planet. And 
they won't even know they're doing it. I think the word you're looking for 
right now is 'Oops'."

        — Part of the Eleventh Doctor's requisite Kirk Summation, "Day of the 
Moon"
%
 — Richard Nixon: I'm a president at the beginning of his time. Dare I ask? 
Will I be remembered? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Oh Dicky. Tricky Dicky. They're never going to forget you.

        — "Day of the Moon"
%
 — House: Fear me, Doctor. I've killed hundreds of Time Lords. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Fear me. I've killed all of them.

        — "The Doctor's Wife"
%
 — [in the Tenth Doctor's voice] "Hello! I'm the Doctor... [in his own voice] 
NO, LET IT GO! WE'VE MOVED ON!"

        — The Eleventh Doctor's ganger taking a potshot at certain segments 
of the fanbase, "The Almost People"
%
 — "I've reversed the Jelly Baby of the neutron flow! I'm the– Would you 
like a... doctor?"

        — The Eleventh Doctor's ganger duplicate getting adjusted to his 
regenerations in "The Almost People"
%
 — Amy: Doctor, I'm frightened. I'm properly, properly scared. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Don't be; hold on. We're coming for you, I swear. 
Whatever happens — however hard, however far — we will find you. 
 — Amy: I'm right here... 
 — Eleventh Doctor: No you're not; and you haven't been for a very, very long 
time...

        — "The Almost People"
%
 — "Hello everyone! Guess who? Please, point a gun at me if it helps you 
relax; you're only human."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, having infiltrated an amassed army formed for 
the sole purpose of killing him; "A Good Man Goes to War"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: No. Colonel Manton, I want you to tell your men to "run 
away." 
 — Colonel Manton: What? 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Those words. "Run away." I want you to be famous for 
those exact words. I want people to call you Colonel Runaway. I want children 
laughing outside your door 'cause they've found the house of Colonel Runaway. 
And when people come to you and ask if trying to get to me through the people I 
LOVE! ...is in any way a good idea, I want you to tell them your name. [Beat] 
Look, I'm angry, that's new. I'm not really sure what's going to happen now. 
 — Madame Kovarian: The anger of a good man is not a problem. Good men have 
too many rules. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: Good men don't need rules. Today is not the day to find 
out why I have so many.

        — "A Good Man Goes to War"
%
 — "Imagine you were dying. Imagine you were afraid, a long way from home, in 
terrible pain. Just when you thought it couldn't get worse... you looked up, 
and saw the face of the devil himself. [beat] Hello, Dalek."

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Wedding of River Song"
%
 — Solomon: Whatever you want, I can get it for you. Whatever object you 
desire. 
 — The Doctor: Did the Silurians beg you to stop? Look Solomon. The missiles. 
See them shine, see how valuable they are? And they're all yours. 
 — Solomon: You wouldn't leave me, Doctor. 
 — The Doctor: Enjoy your bounty.

        — The Eleventh Doctor and the Villain of the Week in "Dinosaurs on a 
Spaceship", just before the Doctor leaves Solomon's ship (with Solomon on it) 
to be blown to bits by missiles
%
 — "Oh, you like to think you're a god — but you're not a god. You're just 
a parasite, eaten out with jealousy, and envy, and longing for the lives of 
others. You feed on them. On the memory of love and loss, and birth and death, 
and joy and sorrow. So.. So... So come on, then. Take mine. Take my memories. 
But I hope you've got a big appetite, because I've lived a long life. And... 
I've seen a few things. I walked away from the Last Great Time War. I marked 
the passing of the Time Lords. I saw the birth of the universe, and I watched 
as time ran out, moment by moment, until nothing remained. No time. No space! 
Just me! I've walked in universes where the laws of physics were devised by the 
mind of a madman! [starts crying] I've watched universes freeze and creations 
burn! I have seen things you wouldn't believe! I have lost things you will 
never understand! And I know things! Secrets that must never be told! Knowledge 
that must never be spoken! Knowledge that will make parasite gods BLAZE! SO 
COME OOOOON THEN! TAKE IT! TAKE IT ALL, BABY! HAVE IT! YOU HAVE IT ALL!"

        — The Eleventh Doctor, "The Rings of Akhaten"
%
 — Clara: I trust the Doctor. 
 — Captain Ferrin: You think he knows what he's doing? 
 — Clara: I wouldn't go that far.

        — "Nightmare in Silver"
%
 — Clara: Look at you. The three of you. The warrior, the hero... and you. 
 — Eleven: And what am I? 
 — Clara: Have you really forgotten? 
 — Eleven: Yes. Maybe, yes. 
 — Clara: We've got enough warriors. And any idiot can be a hero. 
 — Eleven: Then what do I do? 
 — Clara: What you've always done. Be a doctor. You told me the name you 
chose was a promise. What was the promise? 
 — Ten: Never cruel or cowardly. 
 — War Doctor: Never give up. Never give in.

        — "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — Dalek Commander: You will die now, Doctor. This is the end of you! The 
rules of regeneration are known. You have expended all your lives! 
 — Eleven: Sorry, what did you say? Did you mention the rules? Now, listen. A 
bit of advice: tell me the truth if you think you know it, lay down the law if 
you're feeling brave, but, Daleks, never ever tell – me – the rules! 
 — Dalek Commander: Emergency! Emergency! The Doctor is regenerating! The 
Doctor is regenerating! 
 — Eleven: Oh ho! Look at this! Regeneration number thirteen! We're breaking 
some serious science here, boys! And I tell you what, it's gonna be a whopper! 
Ha ha! 
 — Dalek Commander:  Exterminate! Exterminate the Doctor! 
 — Eleven: Hah! You think you can stop me now, Daleks?! IF YOU WANT MY LIFE! 
HA! HA! COME! AAAND! GEEET IIIT!

        — "The Time of the Doctor"
%
 — Eleven: It all just disappears doesn't it? Everything you are, like breath 
on a mirror. Any moment now... He's a coming... 
 — Clara: Who? Who's coming? 
 — Eleven: The Doctor. 
 — Clara: [tears up] You. You are the Doctor. 
 — Eleven: Yep. And I always will be. But times change, and so must I... We 
all change. When you think about it, we're all different people all through our 
lives, and that's okay, that's good, you gotta keep moving, so long as you 
remember all people that you used to be. I will not forget one line of this. 
Not one day. I swear. I will always remember when the Doctor was me. 
[a woman suddenly steps down from the balcony of the TARDIS... Amy Pond, as the 
Doctor knew her best] 
 — Amy Pond: [lovingly caresses his cheek while he does the same with her] 
Raggedy Man... Good night. 
[the Doctor no longer sees Amelia or the crayon drawings in his TARDIS; he 
removes his bowtie and lets it drop to the floor.] 
 — Clara: No, no! Please don't change. 
 — Eleven: Hey. [grins one last time and suddenly flings backward, 
regenerating]

        — "The Time of the Doctor"
%
 — "'Doctor' no more."

        — The War Doctor, "The Night of the Doctor"
%
 — War Doctor: What I did, I did without choice... 
 — Eleventh Doctor: [softly] I know... 
 — War Doctor: ...in the name of peace and sanity. 
 — Eleventh Doctor: But not in the name of the Doctor!

        — "The Name of the Doctor"
%
 — "Time Lords of Gallifrey, Daleks of Skaro. I hereby give notice. Too long 
have I stayed my hand. Today, I pass sentence on you all. No more. No more..."

        —The War Doctor, preparing to use the Moment, "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — "Why is there never a big red button?"

        — The War Doctor trying to figure out the Moment, "The Day of the 
Doctor"
%
 — "Am I having some kind of mid-life crisis?"

        — The War Doctor upon getting an eyeful of his replacements, "The Day 
of the Doctor"
%
 — "They're screwdrivers, what are you going to do, assemble a cabinet at 
them?"

        —The War Doctor, "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — "Great men are forged in fire. It is the privilege of lesser men to light 
the flame, whatever the cost."

        — The War Doctor, "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — Eleventh Doctor: GERONIMO! 
 — Tenth Doctor: Allons-y! 
 — War Doctor: Oh, for God's sake! Gallifrey stands!

        — "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — [begins to regenerate from old age] "Oh, yes... 'Course, suppose it makes 
sense... Wearing a bit thin. [last words] I hope the ears are a bit less 
conspicuous this time."

        — The War Doctor, "The Day of the Doctor"
%
 — Twelfth Doctor: Kidneys!! I've got new kidneys! ...I don't like the 
colour. 
 — Clara: Of your kidneys? 
[the TARDIS suddenly lurches violently and begins sputtering downward] 
 — Clara: What's happening? 
 — Twelfth Doctor: We're probably crashing. Oh! 
 — Clara: Into what!? 
 — Twelfth Doctor: Stay calm! Just one question! 
[beat] 
 — Twelfth Doctor: Do you happen to know how to fly this thing? 
[Clara looks back at the Doctor, massively horrified]

        — The newly regenerated Twelfth Doctor, "The Time of the Doctor"
%
 — Twelfth Doctor: You realize, of course, one of us is lying about our basic 
programming. 
 — Half-Face Man: [scared] Yes. 
 — Twelfth Doctor: And I think we both know who that is.

        — "Deep Breath"
%
 — Rusty: I see into your soul, Doctor. I see beauty. I see divinity. I... 
See... Hatred! 

 — Rusty: I am not a good Dalek. You are a good Dalek.

        — "Into the Dalek"
%
 — "Robbing a bank. Robbing a whole bank. Beat that for a date."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "Time Heist"
%
 — "I tried to talk, I want you to remember that. I tried to reach out, I 
tried to understand you, but I think that you understand us perfectly. And I 
think that you just don't care! And I don't know whether you are here to 
invade, infiltrate or just replace us. I don't suppose it really matters now, 
you are monsters! That is the role you seem determined to play, so it seems 
that I must play mine! The man that stops the monsters! I'm sending you back to 
your own dimension. Who knows? Some of you may even survive the trip! And if 
you do! Remember this! You! Are not welcome here! This plane is protected! I! 
Am the Doctor! And I name you: the Boneless!"

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "Flatline"
%
 — "I am not a good man! And I'm not a bad man. I am not a hero, I'm 
definitely not a president, and no, I'm not an officer. You know what I am? I. 
Am. An idiot! With a box, and a screwdriver, passing through, helping out, 
learning. I don't need an army — I never have — because I've got them. 
Always them. Because love is not an emotion. Love is a promise."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "Death in Heaven"
%
 — "So there's this man. He has a time machine. Up and down history he goes, 
zip zip zip zip zip, getting into scrapes. Another thing he has is a passion 
for the works of Ludwig van Beethoven. And one day he thinks, "What's the point 
of having a time machine if you don't get to meet your heroes?" So off he goes 
to 18th-century Germany. But he can't find Beethoven anywhere. No-one's heard 
of him, not even his family have any idea who the time traveller is talking 
about. Beethoven literally doesn't exist. (This didn't happen, by the way. I've 
met Beethoven. Nice chap. Very intense. Loved an arm-wrestle. No, this is 
called "The Bootstrap Paradox". Google it.) The time traveller panics, he can't 
bear the thought of a world without the music of Beethoven. Luckily he'd 
brought all his Beethoven sheet music for Ludwig to sign. So he copies out all 
the concertos and the symphonies... and he gets them published. He becomes 
Beethoven. And history continues with barely a feather ruffled. But my question 
is this. Who put those notes and phrases together? Who really composed 
Beethoven's 5th?"

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "Before the Flood"
%
 — Twelfth Doctor: Because it's not a game, Kate. This is a scale model of 
war. Every war ever fought right there in front of you. Because it's always the 
same. When you fire that first shot, no matter how right you feel, you have no 
idea who's going to die. You don't know who's children are going to scream and 
burn. How many hearts will be broken! How many lives shattered! How much blood 
will spill until everybody does what they're always going to have to do from 
the very beginning — sit down and talk! Listen to me, listen. I just — I 
just want you to think. Do you know what thinking is? It's just a fancy word 
for changing your mind. 
 — Bonnie: I will not change my mind. 
 — Twelfth Doctor: Then you will die stupid. Alternatively, you could step 
away from that box. You could walk right out of that door, and you could stand 
your revolution down. 
 — Bonnie: No, I'm not stopping this, Doctor. I started it. I will not stop 
it. You think they'll let me go after what I've done? 
 — Twelfth Doctor: You're all the same, you screaming kids, you know that? 
"Look at me, I'm unforgivable." Well here's the unforeseeable, I forgive you. 
After all you've done. I forgive you. 
 — Bonnie: You don't understand. You will never understand. 
 — Twelfth Doctor: I don't understand? Are you kidding? Me? Of course I 
understand. I mean, do you call this a war, this funny little thing? This is 
not a war. I fought in a bigger war than you will ever know. I did worse things 
than you could ever imagine, and when I close my eyes... I hear more screams 
than anyone could ever be able to count! And do you know what you do with all 
that pain? Shall I tell you where you put it? You hold it tight... Til it burns 
your hand. And you say this — no one else will ever have to live like this. 
No one else will ever have to feel this pain. Not on my watch.

        — "The Zygon Inversion"
%
 — "As you come into this world, something else is also born. You begin your 
life, and it begins a journey. Towards you. It moves slowly, but it never 
stops. Wherever you go, whatever path you take, it will follow; never faster, 
never slower, always coming. You will run, it will walk. You will rest. It will 
not. One day, you will linger in the same place too long. You will sit too 
still. You will sleep too deep. And when, too late, you rise to go, you will 
notice a second shadow next to yours. Your life will then be over."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, narration, "Heaven Sent"
%
 — "So you want me to tell you a story? The Brothers Grimm. Lovely fellows. 
They're on my darts team. According to them, there's this emperor, and he asks 
this shepherd's boy, "How many seconds in eternity?" And the shepherd's boy 
says, "There's this mountain of pure diamond. It takes an hour to climb it and 
an hour to go around it! And every hundred years a little bird comes and 
sharpens its beak on the diamond mountain. And when the entire mountain is 
chiseled away, the first... second... of eternity... will have passed!" You may 
think that's a hell of a long time! Personally... Personally, I think that's a 
hell of a bird."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "Heaven Sent"
%
 — Brock: Who are you? 
 — Twelfth Doctor: There have been many attempts to conquer the Earth. I've 
lost count. Not one of them has succeeded. Not a single one. They all lost and 
burned and ran. That's who I am.

        — "The Return of Doctor Mysterio"
%
 — "The end of your life has already begun. There is a last place you will 
ever go, a last door you will ever walk through, a last sight you will ever 
see, and every step you ever take is moving you closer. The end of the world is 
a billion billion tiny moments, and somewhere, unnoticed, in silence or in 
darkness, it has already begun."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "The Pyramid at the End of the World"
%
 — "Hey! I'm going to be dead in a few hours, so before I go, let's have this 
out, you and me, once and for all. Winning? Is that what you think it's about? 
I'm not trying to win. I'm not doing this because I want to beat someone, or 
because I hate someone, or because, because I want to blame someone. It's not 
because it's fun and God knows it's not because it's easy. It's not even 
because it works, because it hardly ever does. I do what I do, because it's 
right! Because it's decent! And above all, it's kind. It's just that. Just 
kind. If I run away today, good people will die. If I stand and fight, some of 
them might live. Maybe not many, maybe not for long. Hey, you know, maybe 
there's no point in any of this at all, but it's the best I can do, so I'm 
going to do it. And I will stand here doing it till it kills me. You're going 
to die too, some day. How will that be? Have you thought about it? What would 
you die for? Who I am is where I stand. Where I stand, is where I fall. Stand 
with me. These people are terrified. Maybe we can help, a little. Why not, just 
at the end, just be kind?"

        — The Twelfth Doctor, "The Doctor Falls"
%
 — "No stars. Pity. I hoped there'd be stars."

        — The Twelfth Doctor, just before he dies (but not quite), "The 
Doctor Falls"
%
 — "Oh, there it is. Silly old universe. The more I save it the more it needs 
saving. It's a treadmill. [the TARDIS makes argumentative noises; the Doctor 
sighs heavily] Yes, yes, I know they'll get it all wrong without me. [the 
TARDIS makes noises in agreement] Well, I suppose... one more lifetime won't 
kill anyone... Well, except me. You wait a moment, Doctor! Let's get it right. 
I've got a few things to say to you. Basic stuff first. Never be cruel, never 
be cowardly. And never, ever eat pears! Remember, hate is always foolish... and 
love, is always wise. [sighs wearily] Always try, to be nice and never fail to 
be kind. Oh, and... and you mustn't tell anyone your name. No-one would 
understand it anyway. Except... [gasps and collapses to the floor, then 
clutches his stomach in pain] except... children. Children can hear it. 
Sometimes, if their hearts are in the right place, and the stars are too. 
Children can hear your name. [struggles to get back on his feet] But nobody 
else. Nobody else. Ever. [gets back up again] Laugh hard! Run fast. Be kind. 
[pauses to compose himself] Doctor... I let you go."

        — The Twelfth Doctor's Final Speech before regenerating, "Twice Upon 
a Time"
%
 — "Oh, brilliant!"

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, upon seeing her own reflection for the first 
time, "Twice Upon a Time"
%
 — "There's this moment when you're sure you're about to die. And then... 
you're born. It's terrifying. Right now I'm a stranger to myself. There's 
echoes of who I was and a sort of call towards who I am. And I have to hold my 
nerve and trust all these new instincts — shape myself towards them. I'll be 
fine, in the end. Hopefully. I have to be, because you guys need help. And if 
there's one thing I'm certain of, when people need help, I never refuse."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, on regeneration, "The Woman Who Fell to 
Earth"
%
 — "We're all capable of the most incredible change. We can evolve while 
still staying true to who we are. We can honour who we've been and choose who 
we want to be next."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, "The Woman Who Fell to Earth"
%
 — "I'm the Doctor. Sorting out fair play throughout the universe. Now 
please. Get off this planet while you still have a choice."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, to Tzim-Sha, "The Woman Who Fell to Earth"
%
 — Yaz: Have you got family? 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: ...no. Lost them a long time ago. 
 — Ryan: How'd you cope with that? 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: I carry them with me. What they would have thought, and 
said, and done. Make them a part of who I am. So even though they're gone from 
the world, they're never gone from me.

        — "The Woman Who Fell to Earth"
%
 — "I'm just a traveller. Sometimes I see things need fixin'... I do what I 
can."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, "The Woman Who Fell to Earth"
%
 — Remnants: You lead, but you're scared too. For yourself and for others. 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: Yeah, well... Who isn't? 
 — Remnants: Afraid of your own newness. We see deeper, though. Further back. 
The Timeless Child. 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: ...What did you just say? 
 — Remnants: She doesn't know. 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: What are you talking about? What can you see? 
 — Remnants: We see what's hidden, even from yourself. The Outcast, abandoned 
and unknown. 
[beat] 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: Get out of my head.

        — "The Ghost Monument"
%
 — "Come to Daddy. I mean Mummy. I mean... I really need you right now!"

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, trying to get the TARDIS to materialize, 
"The Ghost Monument"
%
 — "Oh, my beautiful Ghost Monument... Hello, you. I've missed you. Oh! 
You've done yourself up! Very nice..."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor, to the TARDIS, "The Ghost Monument"
%
 — Krasko: Blue box in the alley, is it a TARDIS? 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: Might be. What's it to you? 
 — Krasko: Well, could be worth a lot. 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: Nah, not that one. Second hand, huge mileage, one 
careless owner!

        — "Rosa"
%
 — Thirteenth Doctor: You're a medic, I'm the Doctor. 
 — Mabli: A doctor of medicine? 
 — Thirteenth Doctor: Well, medicine, science, engineering, candy floss, 
LEGO, philosophy, music, problems, people, hope. Mostly hope.

        — "The Tsuranga Conundrum"
%
 — "No matter how many times you try, no matter how long you wait... I will 
always be in your way, backed up by the best of humanity. Now... final, final, 
final warning, because I'm nice. I really do try my best. Stop the signal, get 
off this planet."

        — The Thirteenth Doctor explains herself to a Dalek, "Resolution"
%
