Privacy Policy

Change Vision, Inc.
Effective on May 25, 2018

This Privacy Policy covers the information we collect about you when you use our products and services. This policy will help you understand:

    Information we collect
    How we use your information
    How we share your information
    How long we keep your information
    Your rights to access, delete and control your information
    Other important privacy information

When we refer to “CV,” “we,” or “us” in this policy, we mean Change Vision, Inc., which controls the information that Change Vision, Inc. collects when you use our Products or Services and we refer to all of the products, together with our other services and websites as “Services” in this policy.

By using our Services, you consent to our use of your information under this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree with this policy, do not access or use our Services.
Information we collect about you

We collect information about you when you provide it to us directly when you use our Services and also when you purchase our Services through our online store or resellers.
Information you provide to us directly

    ChangeVision Members account Registration: We collect information about you when you create an account in ChangeVision Members to use our Services, modify your information to keep it updated, and also when you apply for an Organizational Evaluation License. The information we collect includes your name, Email address and your company/Organization name. Other information appear on the form is optional.
    Academic License Request: We collect information about you when you request a free student license of our product, such as name, Email address and any proof that you are currently a student.
    Information you provide through our QA Forum and customer support: The Services include customer support, where you may choose to submit information regarding a problem you are experiencing with a Service. When you use our QA form, technical support form or simply Emails to ask questions, you will be asked to provide contact information, a summary of the problem you are experiencing, and any other documentation, screenshots or information that would be helpful in resolving the issue.
    Trial License Request: When you request a free trial of our products, you will be asked to provide your contact information such as name and Email address on Download page.
    Activation of Organizational License: When you activate your Organizational License on your machine, the Product will ask you to enter “identifier” name. This identifier name will be transferred to us with your license number, volume serial number of your machine and IP address. The IP address we collect will be the one that the company uses, not the personal one.

Information we receive through our online store and distributors

We receive information from our partner companies who sell our Products, such as purchaser’s name, Email address, contact information, company name, what product was purchased, what country the purchaser is located and billing information. When you purchased auto-registration type of license, ChangeVision Members account will be automatically created based on the information you provided at a purchase to our online store or distributors. However we will not receive credit card or banking information you used to make a payment.
How we use the information we collect

How we use the information we collect depends on which Services you use, how you use them. Below are the specific purposes for which we use the information we collect about you.

    To provide the Services and personalize your experience: We use information about you to provide the Services to you, including to authenticate you when you log in, provide customer support, and operate and maintain the Services. For example, we use the name and Email address in your account to identify you to other Service users.
    To communicate with you about the Services: We use your contact information to send transactional communications via Email, including confirming your purchases, reminding you of subscription expiry dates, responding to your feedback, questions and requests, providing customer support, and sending you technical updates. These communications are part of the Services.
    To market, drive engagement with the Services: We use your contact information and information about how you use the Services to send promotional communications that may be of specific interest to you by Email. These communications are aimed at driving engagement and maximizing what you get with us and our Products, including information about new features, survey requests, newsletters, and events may be of interest to you. We also communicate with you about new product offers and promotions.
    Customer support: We use your information to resolve technical issues you encounter, to respond to your requests for assistance, to analyze crash information, and to repair and improve the Services.
    With your consent: We use information about you where you have given us consent to do so for a specific purpose such as creating testimonials to promote the Services with your permission on our website or any marketing materials.

How we share your information

We share your information with third parties that help us operate, provide, support and market our Services.

    Service providers: We use others to help us provide our Services mainly marketing and support. They will have access to your information as reasonably necessary to perform their tasks on our behalf and are obligated to not to disclose or use it for other purposes.
    To protect our legitimate business interests and legal rights: Where required by law or where we believe it is necessary to protect our legal rights, interests and the interests of others, we use information about you in connection with legal claims, compliance, regulatory, and audit functions, and disclosures in connection with the acquisition, merger or sale of a business.

How long we keep your information

How long we keep information we collect about you depends on the type of information, as described in further detail below. After such time, we will either delete or anonymize your information or, if this is not possible (for example, because the information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your information and isolate it from any further use until deletion is possible.

    ChangeVision Members Account information: We retain your account information while your account is in existence or as needed to provide you Services. However we may close your account if you have not logged in for five (5) years.
    Academic License / Trial License Requests: We retain your information for three (3) years in order to provide adequate support unless you request the deletion of your information.

How to access and control your information

You have certain rights to access and control your information. Below is a summary of those choices, how to exercise them and any limitations.
Your choices:

You have the right to request a copy of your information, to object to our use of your information including for marketing purposes, to request the deletion or restriction of your information, or to request your information in a structured, electronic format.

    Access and update your information: Within ChangeVision Members service, you can update your personal information from [Change settings] menu. For other information you provided for other than ChangeVision Members account, you can request an access and update certain information about you by contacting us.
    Delete your information: Within ChangeVision Members service, you can delete your account from [Resign Membership] menu. For other information you provided for other than ChangeVision Members account, you can request for deletion by contacting us.
    Request that we stop using your information: In some cases, you may ask us to stop accessing, storing, using and otherwise processing your information. For example, if you believe a Services account was created for you without your permission or you are no longer an active user, you can request that we delete your account. Also where you gave us consent to use your information for a certain purpose, you can contact us to withdraw that consent, but this will not affect any processing that has already taken place at the time.
    Opt out of communications: You may opt out of receiving promotional communications from us at any time. You only need to Email us to have your name and Emails removed from our e-mail list or registration databse. Although opt-out requests are usually processed immediately, please allow five (5) business days for the removal to be processed.
    Data portability: Data portability is the ability to obtain some of your information in a format you can move from one service provider to another. Depending on the context, this applies to some of your information, but not to all of your information. Should you request it, we will provide you with an electronic file of your basic account information.

Other important privacy information
Cross-border data transfers:

At times it may be necessary for us to transfer certain personal data outside of Japan for providing the support and marketing purposes and data transfer will be made between approved contractors and resellers only and they are legally bound to uphold this Policy.
Changes to our Privacy Policy

We may modify this Privacy Policy. We will post any Privacy Policy changes on this page and we will provide prominent notice by adding a notice on our homepages and sending you an Email notification. If you object to any changes, you have to stop using the Services and close your account. Your continued use of our Services after we publish our changes to this Privacy Policy means that you are consenting to the updated Privacy Policy.
Contact us

Your information is controlled by Change Vision, Inc.
If you have questions or concerns about how your information is handled, please direct your inquiry to Change Vision, Inc.

Change Vision, Inc.
7F-NBF Kandasudacho Bldg. 2-3-1, Kandasuda-cho,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, JAPAN 101-0041
Email: info@change-vision.com
